On the morning of February 19, 1945, the first wave of United States Marines landed on the island of Iwo Jima — commencing 36 long, perilous days of gruesome warfare, and one of the most consequential campaigns of the Second World War. With ruthless fervor, the Japanese struck our forces with mortars, heavy artillery, and a steady barrage of small arms fire, but they could not shake the spirit of the Marines, and American forces did not retreat. Five days into the conflict, six Marines ascended the island’s highest peak and hoisted Old Glory into the summit of Mount Suribachi — a triumphant moment that has stood the test of time as a lasting symbol of the grit, resolve, and unflinching courage of Marines and all of those who serve our Nation in uniform. After five weeks of unrelenting warfare, the island was declared secure, and our victory advanced America’s cause in the Pacific Theater — but at a staggering cost. Of the 70,000 men assembled for the campaign, nearly 7,000 Marines and Sailors died, and 20,000 more were wounded. The battle was defined by massive casualties, but also acts of gallantry — 27 Marines and Sailors received the Medal of Honor for their valor during Iwo Jima. No other single battle in our Nation’s history bears this distinction. Eighty years later, we proudly continue to honor their heroism. American liberty was secured, in part, by young men who stormed the black sand shores of Iwo Jima and defeated the Japanese Imperial Army eight decades ago. In spite of a brutal war, the United States–Japan Alliance represents the cornerstone of peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific. Nonetheless, our victory at Iwo Jima stands as a legendary display of American might and an eternal testament to the unending love, nobility, and fortitude of America’s Greatest Generation. To every Patriot who selflessly rose to the occasion, left behind his family and his home, and gallantly shed his blood for freedom on the battlefields at Iwo Jima, we vow to never forget your intrepid devotion — and we pledge to build a country, a culture, and a future worthy of your sacrifice. NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim February 19, 2025, as the 80th Anniversary of the Battle of Iwo Jima. I encourage all Americans to remember the selfless patriots of the Greatest Generation. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to promote the long-term financial health and international leadership of the United States, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Policy and Purpose. It is the policy of the United States to maximize the stewardship of our national wealth for the sole benefit of American citizens. To this end, it is in the interest of the American people that the Federal Government establish a sovereign wealth fund to promote fiscal sustainability, lessen the burden of taxes on American families and small businesses, establish economic security for future generations, and promote United States economic and strategic leadership internationally. Sec. 2. Sovereign Wealth Fund. The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Commerce, in close coordination with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, shall develop a plan for the establishment of a sovereign wealth fund consistent with section 1 of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Commerce shall jointly submit this plan to the President within 90 days of the date of this order. Such plan shall include recommendations for funding mechanisms, investment strategies, fund structure, and a governance model. The plan shall also include an evaluation of the legal considerations for establishing and managing such a fund, including any need for legislation. Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 3, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:Section 1. Purpose. My Administration has fought and will continue to fight anti-Semitism in the United States and around the world. On December 11, 2019, I issued Executive Order 13899, my first Executive Order on Combating Anti-Semitism, finding that students, in particular, faced anti-Semitic harassment in schools and on university and college campuses. Executive Order 13899 provided interpretive assistance on the enforcement of the Nation’s civil rights laws to ensure that they would protect American Jews to the same extent to which all other American citizens are protected. The prior administration effectively nullified Executive Order 13899 by failing to give the terms of the order full force and effect throughout the Government. This order reaffirms Executive Order 13899 and directs additional measures to advance the policy thereof in the wake of the Hamas terrorist attacks of October 7, 2023, against the people of Israel. These attacks unleashed an unprecedented wave of vile anti-Semitic discrimination, vandalism, and violence against our citizens, especially in our schools and on our campuses. Jewish students have faced an unrelenting barrage of discrimination; denial of access to campus common areas and facilities, including libraries and classrooms; and intimidation, harassment, and physical threats and assault. A joint report by the House Committees on Education and the Workforce, Energy and Commerce, Judiciary, Oversight and Accountability, Veterans’ Affairs, and Ways and Means calls the Federal Government’s failure to fight anti-Semitism and protect Jewish students “astounding.” This failure is unacceptable and ends today. Sec. 2. Policy. It shall be the policy of the United States to combat anti-Semitism vigorously, using all available and appropriate legal tools, to prosecute, remove, or otherwise hold to account the perpetrators of unlawful anti-Semitic harassment and violence.Sec. 3. Additional Measures to Combat Campus Anti-Semitism. (a) Within 60 days of the date of this order, the head of each executive department or agency (agency) shall submit a report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, identifying all civil and criminal authorities or actions within the jurisdiction of that agency, beyond those already implemented under Executive Order 13899, that might be used to curb or combat anti-Semitism, and containing an inventory and analysis of all pending administrative complaints, as of the date of the report, against or involving institutions of higher education alleging civil-rights violations related to or arising from post-October 7, 2023, campus anti-Semitism.(b) The report submitted by the Attorney General under this section shall additionally include an inventory and an analysis of all court cases, as of the date of the report, against or involving institutions of higher education alleging civil-rights violations related to or arising from post-October 7, 2023, campus anti-Semitism and indicate whether the Attorney General intends to or has taken any action with respect to such matters, including filing statements of interest or intervention.(c) The Attorney General is encouraged to employ appropriate civil-rights enforcement authorities, such as 18 U.S.C. 241, to combat anti-Semitism. (d) The report submitted by the Secretary of Education under this section shall additionally include an inventory and an analysis of all Title VI complaints and administrative actions, including in K-12 education, related to anti-Semitism — pending or resolved after October 7, 2023 — within the Department’s Office for Civil Rights.(e) In addition to identifying relevant authorities to curb or combat anti-Semitism generally required by this section, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Education, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with each other, shall include in their reports recommendations for familiarizing institutions of higher education with the grounds for inadmissibility under 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3) so that such institutions may monitor for and report activities by alien students and staff relevant to those grounds and for ensuring that such reports about aliens lead, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to investigations and, if warranted, actions to remove such aliens.Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Purpose. In shocking disregard of its citizens’ rights, the Republic of South Africa (South Africa) recently enacted Expropriation Act 13 of 2024 (Act), to enable the government of South Africa to seize ethnic minority Afrikaners’ agricultural property without compensation. This Act follows countless government policies designed to dismantle equal opportunity in employment, education, and business, and hateful rhetoric and government actions fueling disproportionate violence against racially disfavored landowners.In addition, South Africa has taken aggressive positions towards the United States and its allies, including accusing Israel, not Hamas, of genocide in the International Court of Justice, and reinvigorating its relations with Iran to develop commercial, military, and nuclear arrangements. The United States cannot support the government of South Africa’s commission of rights violations in its country or its ‘undermining United States foreign policy, which poses national security threats to our Nation, our allies, our African partners, and our interests. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States that, as long as South Africa continues these unjust and immoral practices that harm our Nation: (a) the United States shall not provide aid or assistance to South Africa; and (b) the United States shall promote the resettlement of Afrikaner refugees escaping government-sponsored race-based discrimination, including racially discriminatory property confiscation. Sec. 3. Assistance. (a) All executive departments and agencies (agencies), including the United States Agency for International Development, shall, to the maximum extent allowed by law, halt foreign aid or assistance delivered or provided to South Africa, and shall promptly exercise all available authorities and discretion to halt such aid or assistance. (b) The head of each agency may permit the provision of any such foreign aid or assistance that, in the discretion of the relevant agency head, is necessary or appropriate. Sec. 4. Refugee Resettlement and Other Humanitarian Considerations. The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take appropriate steps, consistent with law, to prioritize humanitarian relief, including admission and resettlement through the United States Refugee Admissions Program, for Afrikaners in South Africa who are victims of unjust racial discrimination. Such plan shall be submitted to the President through the Assistant to the President and Homeland Security Advisor. Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 7, 2025.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA A PROCLAMATION 1. On January 19, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) transmitted to me a report on his investigation into the effect of imports of aluminum on the national security of the United States under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862) (section 232). The Secretary found and advised me of the Secretary’s opinion that aluminum is being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States. 2. In Proclamation 9704 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United States), I concurred in the Secretary’s finding that aluminum was being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and decided to adjust the imports of aluminum articles by imposing a 10 percent ad valorem tariff on such articles imported from most countries. Proclamation 9704 further stated that any country with which the United States has a security relationship is welcome to discuss alternative ways to address the threatened impairment of the national security caused by imports from that country, and noted that, should the United States and any such country arrive at a satisfactory alternative means to address the threat to the national security such that I determine that imports from that country no longer threaten to impair the national security, I may remove or modify the restriction on aluminum articles imports from that country and, if necessary, adjust the tariff as it applies to other countries, as the national security interests of the United States require. 3. In Proclamation 9704, I also directed the Secretary to monitor imports of aluminum articles and inform me of any circumstances that in the Secretary’s opinion might indicate the need for further action under section 232 with respect to such imports. Pursuant to Proclamation 9704, the Secretary was authorized to provide relief from the additional duties, based on a request from a directly affected party located in the United States, for any aluminum article determined not to be produced in the United States in a sufficient and reasonably available amount or of a satisfactory quality, or based upon specific national security considerations. Proclamation 9776 of August 29, 2018, and Proclamation 9980 of January 24, 2020, similarly authorized the Secretary to provide relief from certain tariffs on other aluminum products and derivatives set forth in those proclamations. 4. In subsequent proclamations, the President adjusted the tariffs applicable to aluminum articles imports from Argentina, Australia, Canada, Mexico, the European Union (EU), and the United Kingdom (UK), after engaging in discussions with each of those parties on alternative ways to address the threat to the national security from such imports. 5. The Secretary has informed me that, notwithstanding the 10 percent ad valorem tariff imposed by Proclamation 9704 that mitigated the threatened impairment of our national security, aluminum imports into the United States have continued at unacceptable levels as the global aluminum excess capacity crisis continues. In addition, the exclusion of certain countries and products from the tariff and efforts by foreign producers to circumvent the tariff have undermined the purpose of Proclamation 9704, which was to adjust the level of imports of aluminum to remove the threatened impairment of the national security. This has again resulted in aluminum smelter capacity utilization rates in the domestic aluminum industry that are well below the target level recommended in the Secretary’s January 19, 2018, report. This indicates that the initial tariff of 10 percent ad valorem is not high enough to address the threatened impairment to our national security posed by aluminum imports. 6. In particular, the Secretary has informed me that global primary aluminum capacity has continued to increase, fueled by expansions in the People’s Republic of China (China) and South America, which is seen in rising aluminum imports that continue to weigh on the price domestic aluminum producers may charge. There has also been a significant increase in Chinese investment in Mexico, driven by massive Chinese government subsidies and the continued ability to exploit loopholes in U.S. trade policy. 7. Domestic aluminum producers have been forced to idle additional production and shut down facilities. Two primary aluminum smelters within the United States have closed since Proclamation 9704 was promulgated. In addition, U.S. primary aluminum production decreased by 30 percent from 2020 to 2024, and U.S. smelter capacity utilization was only 52 percent in 2024. Overcapacity for primary aluminum has harmed downstream aluminum producers, including producers of aluminum extrusions and aluminum sheet. To allow U.S. aluminum producers to restart production and to incentivize new capacity, additional adjustments to section 232 tariffs on aluminum need to be made, including limiting exemptions and increasing the tariff rate. 8. The Secretary has informed me that imports of aluminum articles from countries that are excluded from the tariff regime or have alternative arrangements have remained significantly elevated at levels that once again threaten to impair the national security of the United States. The volume of U.S. imports of aluminum articles from Argentina, Australia, Canada, Mexico, EU countries, and the UK in 2024 was approximately 14 percent higher than the average volume of such imports in 2015 through 2017. In particular, the volume of U.S. imports of primary aluminum from Canada in 2024 was approximately 18 percent higher than the average volume for 2015 through 2017. Notwithstanding Proclamation 10782 of July 10, 2024, which imposed higher tariffs on certain aluminum imports from Mexico, imports of aluminum from Mexico have continued to surge beyond historical volumes. The volume of U.S. imports of aluminum articles from Mexico in 2024 was approximately 35 percent higher than the average volume for 2015 through 2017. Proclamation 10782 did not resolve the surge of imports of aluminum from Mexico. Mexican producers are using unfair trade to gain market share in the United States and are leveraging their access to unfairly traded global primary aluminum to do so. I understand that Mexican producers are commingling primary aluminum from China and the Russian Federation (Russia) with primary aluminum from other countries to produce downstream aluminum articles. These practices are distortive and provide continued outlets to absorb the massive amount of global excess capacity and must be remedied. The volume of U.S. imports of primary aluminum from Australia has also surged and in 2024 was approximately 103 percent higher than the average volume for 2015 through 2017. Australia has disregarded its verbal commitment to voluntarily restrain its aluminum exports to a reasonable level. 9. These volume increases occurred even though demand for aluminum in the United States and Canada (the market measured by industry) has generally remained flat, averaging about 20 percent since 2018. 10. These increasing import volumes support the conclusion that aluminum producers in countries subject to the additional ad valorem tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9704 are engaging in transshipment or further processing of upstream aluminum products in countries that have since been exempted from that tariff. Foreign producers have shifted assembly or manufacturing operations to third countries, such as Mexico. For example, Chinese producers are using Mexico’s general exclusion from the tariff to funnel Chinese aluminum to the United States through Mexico while avoiding the tariff. 11. The Secretary has informed me that producers in countries that remain subject to the ad valorem tariff have continued to evade the tariff by processing covered aluminum articles into additional downstream derivative products that were not included in the additional ad valorem tariffs proclaimed in Proclamation 9704 and Proclamation 9980. Foreign producers are continuing to expand downstream production to absorb the global excess capacity. Imports of additional derivative aluminum products have increased significantly since the issuance of Proclamation 9704 and Proclamation 9980, eroding the domestic industry’s customer base and resulting in depressed demand for aluminum articles produced in the United States. 12. The Secretary has also informed me of the impact of the product exclusion process authorized by Proclamation 9704, Proclamation 9776, and Proclamation 9980 and implemented by subsequent regulations. This process has resulted in exclusions for a significant volume of imports, in a manner that undermines the purpose of the section 232 measures and threatens to impair the national security of the United States. Certain general approved exclusions remain in effect for entire tariff lines of aluminum imports, notwithstanding the domestic industry’s potential to produce many excluded products. 13. I determine that these developments and modifications to the original tariff regime as proclaimed in Proclamation 9704 have undermined the regime’s national security objectives by preventing the domestic aluminum industry (including derivatives) from achieving sustained production capacity utilization of at least 80 percent, as determined in the Secretary’s January 19, 2018, report. I also determine that the modifications failed to achieve their articulated objectives. As a result, I determine that these modifications have resulted in significantly increasing imports of aluminum articles that once again threaten to impair the national security of the United States. 14. In light of the Secretary’s findings, I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate to adjust the tariff proclaimed by Proclamation 9704, as amended, and the tariff proclaimed by Proclamation 9980, as amended, to increase the tariff rate from 10 percent ad valorem to 25 percent ad valorem. These actions are necessary and appropriate to remove the threatened impairment of the national security of the United States. 15. In light of the Secretary’s findings regarding the alternative agreements with Argentina proclaimed in Proclamation 9758 of May 31, 2018; Australia proclaimed in Proclamation 9758; Canada proclaimed in Proclamation 9893 of May 19, 2019, and Proclamation 10106 of October 27, 2020; Mexico proclaimed in Proclamation 9893 and Proclamation 10782 of July 10, 2024; the European Union proclaimed in Proclamation 10327 of December 27, 2021, and Proclamation 10690 of December 28, 2023; and the United Kingdom proclaimed in Proclamation 10405 of May 31, 2022, I have decided that it is necessary to terminate these agreements as of March 12, 2025. As of March 12, 2025, all imports of aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles from Argentina, Australia, Canada, Mexico, EU countries, and the UK shall be subject to the additional ad valorem tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9704, as amended, with respect to aluminum articles and Proclamation 9980, as amended, with respect to derivative aluminum articles. Imports of aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles from Argentina, Australia, Canada, Mexico, EU countries, and the UK shall be subject to the revised tariff rate of 25 percent ad valorem established in clause 2 of this proclamation, commensurate with the tariff rate imposed on such articles imported from most other countries. In my judgment, these modifications are necessary to address the significantly increasing imports of aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles from these sources, which threaten to impair the national security of the United States. Replacing the alternative agreements with the additional ad valorem tariffs will be a more robust and effective means of ensuring that the objectives articulated in the Secretary’s January 19, 2018, report and subsequent proclamations are achieved. 16. In light of the information provided by the Secretary that the significant increase of imports of certain derivative aluminum articles has depressed demand for aluminum articles produced by domestic aluminum producers, I have determined that it is necessary to adjust the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9704 and Proclamation 9980 to apply to additional derivative aluminum articles. 17. I have also determined that it is necessary to terminate the product exclusion process as authorized in clause 3 of Proclamation 9704, clause 1 of Proclamation 9776, and clause 2 of Proclamation 9980. 18. Section 232, as amended, authorizes the President to take action to adjust the imports of an article and its derivatives that are being imported into the United States in such quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States. 19. Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import restriction. NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, and section 232, do hereby proclaim as follows: “In order to establish increases in the duty rate on imports of certain derivative articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified as provided in Annex I and Annex II to this proclamation. Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, all imports of derivative aluminum articles specified in Annex I to this proclamation shall be subject to an additional 10 percent ad valorem rate of duty, and all imports of derivative steel articles specified in Annex II to this proclamation shall be subject to an additional 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty, with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, as follows: (i) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 8, 2020, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, and the Mexico, and to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea; (ii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on January 1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, and Mexico, and to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Mexico, and South Korea; (iii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on April 1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, and Mexico, and to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, and South Korea; (iv) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on June 1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Mexico, and the United Kingdom, and to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and the UK, and except from Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on June 1, 2023; (v) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on March 10, 2023, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Mexico, the UK, and Russia, and to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and the UK, and except from Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on June 1, 2023; (vi) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on June 1, 2023, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Mexico, the UK, and Russia, and to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and the UK, and except from Ukraine in accordance with the relevant proclamation, as amended; and (vii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on March 12, 2025,a revised 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty, which is in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except Russia.” (6) The Secretary shall not consider any new product exclusion requests under clause 3 of Proclamation 9704, clause 1 of Proclamation 9776, or clause 2 of Proclamation 9980, or renew any such product exclusions in effect as of the date of this proclamation. Granted product exclusions shall remain effective until their expiration date or until excluded product volume is imported, whichever occurs first. The Secretary shall take all actions, including publication in the Federal Register, necessary to terminate the product exclusion process. In addition, all general approved exclusions shall be ineffective as of March 12, 2025, and the Secretary shall publish a notice in the Federal Register to this effect. I have determined that this is necessary to ensure that these general exclusions do not allow high volumes of imports, including of products that the domestic industry can produce and supply, to undermine the objectives articulated in the Secretary’s January 2018 report and relevant subsequent proclamations. Following the elimination of quantitative restrictions on certain sources pursuant to this proclamation, and subject to any restrictions set forth in or pursuant to other provisions of applicable law, imports of any aluminum article or derivative article from any source and in any quantity will be available to domestic importers, provided that the additional ad valorem tariffs are paid upon entry or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption. For purposes of implementing the requirements in this proclamation, importers of aluminum derivative articles shall provide to CBP any information necessary to identify the aluminum content used in the manufacture of aluminum derivative articles imports covered by this Proclamation. CBP is hereby authorized and directed to publish regulations or guidance implementing this requirement as soon as practicable. (7) Within 90 days after the date of this proclamation, the Secretary shall establish a process for including additional derivative aluminum articles within the scope of the ad valorem duties proclaimed in Proclamation 9704, as amended, Proclamation 9980, as amended, and clause 5 of this proclamation. In addition to inclusions made by the Secretary, this process shall provide for including additional derivative aluminum articles at the request of a producer of an aluminum article or derivative aluminum article within the United States, or an industry association representing one or more such producers, establishing that imports of a derivative aluminum article have increased in a manner that threatens to impair the national security or otherwise undermine the objectives set forth in the Secretary’s January 19, 2018 report or any Proclamation issued pursuant thereto. When the Secretary receives such a request from a domestic producer or industry association, it shall issue a determination regarding whether or not to include the derivative aluminum article or articles within 60 days of receiving the request. (8) The provisions of clause 3 of Proclamation 9704, clause 1 of Proclamation 9776, and clause 2 of Proclamation 9980, or any other provisions authorizing the Secretary to grant relief for certain products from the additional ad valorem duties or quantitative restrictions set forth in the prior proclamations described herein are hereby revoked, except to the extent required to implement clause 5 of this proclamation. (9) The modifications made by this proclamation with respect to derivative aluminum articles identified in the annex that are not in chapter 76 of the HTSUS shall be effective upon public notification by the Secretary of Commerce, that adequate systems are in place to fully, efficiently, and expediently process and collect tariff revenue for covered articles. (10) Any aluminum article or derivative article, except those eligible for admission under “domestic status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.43, that is subject to the duty imposed by this proclamation and that is admitted into a U.S. foreign trade zone on or after the Commerce certification date, in accordance with clause 9, may be admitted only under “privileged foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41, and will be subject upon entry for consumption to any ad valorem rates of duty related to the classification under the applicable HTSUS subheading. (11) The United States International Trade Commission, in consultation with the Secretary, the Commissioner of United States Customs and Border Protection (CBP) within the Department of Homeland Security, and the heads of other relevant executive departments and agencies, shall revise the HTSUS so that it conforms to the amendments and effective dates directed in this proclamation within ten days of the date of this proclamation. The Secretary is authorized and directed to publish any such modifications to the HTSUS in the Federal Register. (12) CBP shall prioritize reviews of the classification of imported aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles and, in the event that it discovers misclassification resulting in loss of revenue of the ad valorem duties proclaimed herein, it shall assess monetary penalties in the maximum amount permitted by law. In addition, CBP shall promptly notify the Secretary regarding evidence of any efforts to evade payment of the ad valorem duties proclaimed herein through processing or alteration of aluminum articles or derivative aluminum articles as a disguise or artifice prior to importation. In such circumstances, the Secretary shall consider the processed or altered aluminum articles or derivative aluminum articles for inclusion as derivative aluminum articles pursuant to clause 5 of this proclamation. (13) No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties imposed pursuant to this proclamation. (14) The Secretary may issue regulations and guidance consistent with this proclamation, including to address operational necessity. (15) Any provision of a previous proclamation or Executive Order that is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is superseded to the extent of such inconsistency. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA A PROCLAMATION 1. On January 11, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) transmitted to me a report on the Secretary’s investigation into the effect of imports of steel mill articles (steel articles) on the national security of the United States under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862) (section 232). The Secretary found and advised me of his opinion that steel articles are being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States. 2. In Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), I concurred in the Secretary’s finding that steel articles, as defined in clause 1 of Proclamation 9705 (as amended by clause 8 of Proclamation 9711 of March 22, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States)), are being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and decided to adjust the imports of steel articles by imposing a 25 percent ad valorem tariff on such articles imported from most countries. Proclamation 9705 further stated that any country with which the United States has a security relationship is welcome to discuss alternative ways to address the threatened impairment of the national security caused by imports from that country, and noted that, should the United States and that country arrive at a satisfactory alternative means to address the threat to the national security such that the President determines that imports from that country no longer threaten to impair the national security, I may remove or modify the restriction on steel articles imports from that country and, if necessary, adjust the tariff as it applies to other countries, as the national security interests of the United States require. 3. In Proclamation 9705, I also directed the Secretary to monitor imports of steel articles and inform me of any circumstances that in the Secretary‘s opinion might indicate the need for further action under Section 232, as amended, with respect to such imports. Pursuant to Proclamation 9705, the Secretary was authorized to provide relief from the additional duties, based on a request from a directly affected party located in the United States, for any steel article determined not to be produced in the United States in a sufficient and reasonably available amount or of a satisfactory quality, or based upon specific national security considerations. In subsequent proclamations, I noted the conclusion of discussions or the agreement on certain measures with the Argentine Republic (Argentina), Proclamation 9759 of May 31, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States); the Commonwealth of Australia (Australia), Proclamation 9759; the Federative Republic of Brazil (Brazil), Proclamation 9759; Proclamation 10064 of August 28, 2020 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States); Canada, Proclamation 9894 of May 19, 2019 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States; the United Mexican States (Mexico), Proclamation 9894; and the Republic of Korea (South Korea), Proclamation 9740 of April 30, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States). President Biden noted the conclusion of discussions or the agreement on certain measures with the European Union (EU) on behalf of its member countries, Proclamation 10328 of December 27, 2021 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States); Proclamation 10691 of December 28, 2023 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States); Japan, Proclamation 10356 of March 31, 2022 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States); and the United Kingdom (UK), Proclamation 10406 of May 31, 2022 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), on alternative ways to address the threat to the national security. In addition, then-President Biden acknowledged the close relationship with Ukraine and exempted steel articles from Ukraine from the tariff. Proclamation 10403 of May 27, 2022 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States); Proclamation 10588 of May 31, 2023 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States); Proclamation 10771 of May 31, 2024 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States). In Proclamation 10783 of July 10, 2024 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), President Biden noted that imports of steel articles from Mexico had increased significantly as compared to their levels at the time of Proclamation 9894. Accordingly, he implemented a melt and pour requirement for imports of steel articles that are products of Mexico and increased the section 232 duty rate for imports of steel articles and derivative steel articles that are products of Mexico that are melted and poured in a country other than Mexico, Canada, or the United States. 4. The Secretary has informed me that the initial 25 percent ad valorem tariff imposed by Proclamation 9705 has been an effective means of reducing imports, encouraging investment and expansion of production by domestic steel producers, and mitigating the threatened impairment of U.S. national security. Following the initial imposition of 25 percent ad valorem tariffs, the U.S. steel capacity utilization rate increased to above 80 percent. 5. The Secretary has also informed me that, notwithstanding the impact of the tariff imposed by Proclamation 9705, imports of steel articles from certain countries exempted from the tariff or subject to alternative agreements have increased significantly, while excess capacity in the global steel industry has begun to increase again in recent years. For example, imports from Canada increased 18 percent since Canada was excluded from the section 232 tariffs. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), global steel excess capacity is projected to reach approximately 630 million metric tons by 2026, more than total steel production in all OECD countries. At the same time, exports of steel from the People’s Republic of China (China) have recently surged, exceeding 114 million metric tons through November 2024 while displacing production in other countries and forcing them to export greater volumes of steel articles and derivative steel articles to the United States. 6. Total steel imports as a share of U.S. consumption increased significantly in 2024, reaching nearly 30 percent, similar to the import share of U.S. consumption at the time the Secretary issued his January 11, 2018, report. Imports from countries with which the United States has reached alternative agreements have increased significantly as a share of total imports, from 74 percent in 2018 to 82 percent in 2024, while imports from countries subject to quantitative restrictions remain elevated regardless of changing U.S. demand conditions and the substantial investments made to expand the capabilities of the domestic industry. Increasing and persistently high import volumes from countries exempted from the duties or subject to other alternative agreements like quotas and tariff-rate quotas have captured the benefit of U.S. demand at the domestic industry’s expense and transmitted harmful effects onto the domestic industry. As steel import market share has increased, the domestic industry’s performance has been depressed, resulting in capacity utilization rates persistently lower than the 80 percent target level highlighted in the Secretary’s report. 7. The Secretary has informed me that imports of steel articles from Canada and Mexico have increased significantly to levels that once again threaten to impair U.S. national security. Volumes from both Canada and Mexico increased overall, from 7.77 million metric tons in 2020 to 9.14 million metric tons in 2024. Imports have also surged in excess of historical norms of trade across numerous key product lines, such as long reinforcing bars, which have experienced import increases of 1,678 percent from Mexico and 564 percent from Canada. These surges have occurred while authorities in those countries have supported otherwise uncompetitive producers with subsidies and other interventions that have exacerbated the global excess capacity crisis. In addition, increasing import volumes and including Mexico’s imports from China, support a conclusion that there is transshipment or further processing of steel mill articles from countries that remain subject to the additional ad valorem tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9705, or from countries seeking to evade quantitative restrictions. 8. The Secretary has also informed me that alternative agreements with trading partners including Australia, the members of the EU, Japan, and the United Kingdom have been less effective in eliminating the threatened impairment of U.S. national security than the additional ad valorem tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9705. As a result, imports of steel articles from these countries have increased as a share of total U.S. steel imports from 18.6 percent in 2020 to 20.7 percent in 2024. In addition, from 2022 to 2024, imports from countries subject to quotas (Argentina, Brazil, and South Korea) increased by approximately 1.5 million metric tons, even as U.S. demand declined by more than 6.1 million tons during the period. Argentina has continued to export steel to the United States at unsustainable quantities, especially a recent surge of semifinished products. Furthermore, Argentina’s lack of data transparency has continued to be of concern for the United States. From official trade statistics released by Argentina, it is difficult to assess the levels of steel being imported from places like China and Russia, and other potential sources of excess capacity. Brazilian imports from countries with meaningful levels of overcapacity, specifically China have grown tremendously in recent years, more than tripling since the institution of this quota arrangement. 9. At the same time, these alternative agreements have not resulted in sufficient action by these trading partners to address non-market excess capacity caused primarily by China, or sufficient cooperation by these trading partners on issues like trade remedies and customs matters or monitoring bilateral steel trade. Some countries have also welcomed steel industry investments from non-market producers in countries like China seeking to exploit the agreements to obtain preferential access to the U.S. market. The agreements have therefore been detrimental to U.S. steel production and national security. 10. The Secretary has informed me of similar problems with respect to the temporary exemption for imports of steel articles and derivative steel articles from Ukraine. Rather than supporting the Ukrainian steel industry and alleviating the economic harm caused by the ongoing conflict, the benefits of this temporary exemption have accrued primarily to producers in EU member countries, which have significantly increased duty-free exports to the U.S. market of steel articles processed from Ukrainian semi-finished steel. Since 2021, imports from Ukraine have remained steady at 0.5 percent of total U.S. imports, while imports from the European Union have increased 11.2 percent to 14.8 percent. As a result of the temporary exemption, these imports enter the U.S. market subject to neither the ad valorem tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9705, nor the tariff-rate-quota system applicable to other imports of steel articles from EU producers as proclaimed in Proclamation 10328. This has facilitated evasion of both the section 232 measures and of antidumping duties that would be paid if the finished products were imported directly from Ukraine. 11. The Secretary has informed me that producers in countries that remain subject to the program have continued to evade the measures by processing covered steel articles into additional downstream steel derivative products that were not included in the additional ad valorem tariffs proclaimed in Proclamation 9705 and Proclamation 9980 of January 24, 2020 (Adjusting Imports of Derivative Aluminum Articles and Derivative Steel Articles Into the United States). Imports of products such as fabricated structural steel, prestressed concrete strand, and others, have increased significantly since the issuance of Proclamation 9705 and Proclamation 9980, eroding the domestic industry’s customer base and resulting in depressed demand for steel articles produced in the United States. 12. The Secretary has also informed me of certain ongoing challenges with the product exclusion process authorized by Proclamation 9705, Proclamation 9777 of August 29, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), and Proclamation 9980 and implemented by subsequent regulations. This process has resulted in exclusions for a significant volume of imports, in a manner that undermines the purpose of the section 232 measures and threatens to impair national security. Certain general approved exclusions remain in effect for entire tariff lines of steel articles, notwithstanding the domestic industry’s potential to produce many excluded products. 13. I determine that these developments and modifications to the tariffs announced in Proclamation 9705 have undermined the program’s national security objectives by preventing the domestic steel industry from achieving sustained production capacity utilization of at least 80 percent, as determined necessary in the Secretary’s report of January 11, 2018. I also determine that they have failed to achieve their articulated objectives. As a result, I determine that they have resulted in significantly increasing imports of steel articles that threaten to impair the national security. 14. In light of the Secretary’s findings regarding the alternative agreements with South Korea proclaimed in Proclamation 9740; Argentina, Australia, and Brazil proclaimed in Proclamation 9759; Canada and Mexico proclaimed in Proclamation 9894; EU countries proclaimed in Proclamation 10328; Japan proclaimed in Proclamation 10356; and the United Kingdom proclaimed in Proclamation 10406, I have revisited the determinations in these proclamations. In my judgment, the arrangements with these countries have failed to provide effective, long-term alternative means to address these countries’ contribution to the threatened impairment to the national security by restraining steel articles exports to the United States from each of them, limiting transshipment and surges and distorted pricing, and discouraging excess steel capacity and excess steel production. Thus, I have determined that steel articles imports from these countries threaten to impair the national security, and I have decided that it is necessary to terminate these arrangements as of March 12, 2025. As of that date, all imports of steel articles and derivative steel articles from Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, EU countries, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and the United Kingdom shall be subject to the additional ad valorem tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9705 with respect to steel articles and Proclamation 9980 with respect to derivative steel articles. In my judgment, these modifications are necessary to address the significantly increasing share of imports of steel articles and derivative steel articles from these sources, which threaten to impair U.S. national security. Replacing the alternative agreements with the additional ad valorem tariffs will be a more robust and effective means of ensuring that the objectives articulated in the Secretary’s January 11, 2018, report and subsequent proclamations are achieved. 15. For the same reasons, I have also revisited the determinations in Proclamation 10403, Proclamation 10558, and Proclamation 10771. In my judgment, the arrangement with Ukraine has failed to provide effective, long-term alternative means to address Ukraine’s contribution to the threatened impairment to our national security by restraining steel articles exports to the United States from Ukraine, limiting transshipment and surges, and discouraging excess steel capacity and excess steel production. Thus, I have determined that steel articles imports from Ukraine threaten to impair the national security and have determined that it is necessary to terminate the temporary exemption for imports of steel articles and derivative steel articles from Ukraine as proclaimed in Proclamation 10403, Proclamation 10558, and Proclamation 10771. In my judgment, terminating this exemption will prevent abuses that have resulted in significantly increasing imports from sources other than Ukraine, will prevent evasion of antidumping duties, and will support the domestic steel industry without harming Ukraine’s economic recovery. 16. In light of the information provided by the Secretary that significantly increasing imports of certain derivative steel articles have depressed demand for steel articles produced by domestic steel producers, I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate in light of U.S. national security interests to adjust the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9705 and Proclamation 9980 to apply to additional derivative steel articles. As of March 12, 2025, the additional derivative steel articles covered by this proclamation, as set out in Annex I to this proclamation, shall be subject to the ad valorem duties proclaimed in Proclamation 9705 and Proclamation 9980, except for derivative steel articles processed in another country from steel articles that were melted and poured in the United States. For any derivative steel article identified in Annex I that is not in Chapter 73 of the HTSUS, the additional ad valorem duty shall apply only to the steel content of the derivative steel article. The Secretary shall publish a notice in the Federal Register to this effect, including Annex I to this proclamation. 17. The Secretary has informed me that his findings with regard to the product exclusion process present circumstances that in the Secretary’s opinion indicate the need for further action by the President under section 232. Accordingly, as of the date of this proclamation the Secretary is no longer authorized to provide relief from the additional duties set forth in clause 2 of Proclamation 9705 for any steel article determined not to be produced in the United States in a sufficient and reasonably available amount or a satisfactory quality or based on specific national security determinations, and the product exclusion process as authorized in clause 3 of Proclamation 9705, clause 1 of Proclamation 9777, and clause 2 of Proclamation 9980 is terminated, effective immediately. I have determined that terminating product exclusions is necessary to ensure that overly broad exclusions do not allow high volumes of imports to undermine the objectives articulated in the Secretary’s January 11, 2018, report and relevant subsequent proclamations. This change will also relieve the administrative burden that the process has created. Following this proclamation, and subject to any restrictions set forth in or pursuant to other provisions of applicable law, imports of any steel article or derivative steel article from any source and in any quantity will be available to U.S. importers, provided that the additional ad valorem tariffs are paid upon entry or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption. 18. Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, authorizes the President to take action to adjust the imports of an article and its derivatives if the President concurs with the Secretary’s finding that the article is being imported into the United States in such quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security. 19. Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), authorizes the president to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import restriction. 20. The United States will monitor the implementation and effectiveness of these actions in addressing our national security needs, and I may revisit this determination, as appropriate. NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, and section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, do hereby proclaim as follows: “(2)(a) In order to establish certain modifications to the duty rate on imports of steel articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified as provided in the forthcoming annex to this proclamation set out in a subsequent Federal Register notice and any subsequent proclamations regarding such steel articles. (b) Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, or in notices published pursuant to clause 3 of this proclamation, all steel articles imports covered by heading 9903.80.01, in subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS, shall be subject to an additional 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, as follows: (i) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on March 23, 2018, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and the member countries of the European Union; (ii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on June 1, 2018, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, and South Korea; (iii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on August 13, 2018, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (iv) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on May 20, 2019, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (v) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on May 21, 2019, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea; (vi) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on January 1, 2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea, and except the member countries of the European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on December 31, 2023, for steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19, inclusive; (vii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on April 1, 2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea, and except the member countries of the European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on December 31, 2023, for steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan, for steel articles covered by headings 9903.81.25 through 9903.81.80, inclusive; (viii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on June 1, 2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on June 1, 2023, and except the member countries of the European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on December 31, 2023, for steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan and the United Kingdom (UK), for steel articles covered by subheadings 9903.81.25 through 9903.81.78 and heading 9903.81.80, and from the member countries of the European Union, for steel articles covered by heading 9903.81.81; (ix) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on June 1, 2023, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on June 1, 2024, and except the member countries of the European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on December 31, 2023, for steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan and the UK, for steel articles covered by subheadings 9903.81.25 through 9903.81.78 and heading 9903.81.80, and from the member countries of the European Union, for steel articles covered by heading 9903.81.81, and from the member countries of the European Union where the steel used in the manufacture of the steel article is melted and poured in Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on June 1, 2024, (x) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on January 1, 2024, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea, and except for Ukraine in accordance with the relevant proclamation as amended, and except the member countries of the European Union in accordance with the relevant proclamation as amended, for steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan and the UK , in accordance the relevant proclamation as amended, for steel articles covered by subheadings 9903.81.25 through 9903.81.78 and heading 9903.81.80, and from the member countries of the European Union in accordance with the relevant proclamation as amended, for steel articles covered by heading 9903.81.81, and from the member countries of the European Union where the steel used in the manufacture of the steel article is melted and poured in Ukraine in accordance with the relevant proclamation as amended, and (xi) from all countries on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on March 12, 2025, unless suspended. Further, except as otherwise provided in notices published pursuant to clause 3 of this proclamation, all steel articles imports from Turkey covered by heading 9903.80.02, in subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS, shall be subject to a 50 percent ad valorem rate of duty with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on August 13, 2018, and prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern time on May 21, 2019. These rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported steel articles, shall apply to imports of steel articles from each country as specified in the preceding three sentences.“ “In order to establish increases in the duty rate on imports of certain derivative articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified as provided in Annex I and Annex II to this proclamation. Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, all imports of derivative aluminum articles specified in Annex I to this proclamation shall be subject to an additional 10 percent ad valorem rate of duty, and all imports of derivative steel articles specified in Annex II to this proclamation shall be subject to an additional 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty, with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, as follows: (i) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 8, 2020, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, the Commonwealth of Australia (Australia), Canada, and the United Mexican States (Mexico), and to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea; (ii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on January 1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, and Mexico, and to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Mexico, and South Korea; (iii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on April 1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, and Mexico, and to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, and South Korea; (iv) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on June 1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Mexico, and the UK, and to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and the UK, and except from Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on June 1, 2023; (v) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on March 10, 2023, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Mexico, the UK, and Russia, and to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and the UK, and except from Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on June 1, 2023; (vi) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on June 1, 2023, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Mexico, the UK, and Russia, and to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and the UK, and except from Ukraine om accordance with the relevant proclamation as amended; and (vii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on March 12, 2025, unless suspended, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, taxes, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries.” IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby determine and order: Section 1. Amendment. Regarding the Executive Order of February 1, 2025 (Imposing Duties to Address the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in the People’s Republic of China), the following shall replace subsection (g) of section 2: “(g) Duty-free de minimis treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321 is available for otherwise eligible covered articles described in subsection (a) of this section, but shall cease to be available for such articles upon notification by the Secretary of Commerce to the President that adequate systems are in place to fully and expediently process and collect tariff revenue applicable pursuant to subsection (a) of this section for covered articles otherwise eligible for de minimis treatment.” Sec. 2. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.THE WHITE HOUSE, February 5, 2025. 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. From this day forward, the foreign policy of the United States shall champion core American interests and always put America and American citizens first. Sec. 2. Policy. As soon as practicable, the Secretary of State shall issue guidance bringing the Department of State’s policies, programs, personnel, and operations in line with an America First foreign policy, which puts America and its interests first. Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
January 20, 2025 MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR ECONOMIC POLICY THE SENIOR COUNSELOR FOR TRADE AND MANUFACTURING SUBJECT: America First Trade Policy Section 1. Background. In 2017, my Administration pursued trade and economic policies that put the American economy, the American worker, and our national security first. This spurred an American revitalization marked by stable supply chains, massive economic growth, historically low inflation, a substantial increase in real wages and real median household wealth, and a path toward eliminating destructive trade deficits. My Administration treated trade policy as a critical component to national security and reduced our Nation’s dependence on other countries to meet our key security needs. Americans benefit from and deserve an America First trade policy. Therefore, I am establishing a robust and reinvigorated trade policy that promotes investment and productivity, enhances our Nation’s industrial and technological advantages, defends our economic and national security, and — above all — benefits American workers, manufacturers, farmers, ranchers, entrepreneurs, and businesses. Sec. 2. Addressing Unfair and Unbalanced Trade. (a) The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the United States Trade Representative, shall investigate the causes of our country’s large and persistent annual trade deficits in goods, as well as the economic and national security implications and risks resulting from such deficits, and recommend appropriate measures, such as a global supplemental tariff or other policies, to remedy such deficits. (b) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall investigate the feasibility of establishing and recommend the best methods for designing, building, and implementing an External Revenue Service (ERS) to collect tariffs, duties, and other foreign trade-related revenues. (c) The United States Trade Representative, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, shall undertake a review of, and identify, any unfair trade practices by other countries and recommend appropriate actions to remedy such practices under applicable authorities, including, but not limited to, the Constitution of the United States; sections 71 through 75 of title 15, United States Code; sections 1337, 1338, 2252, 2253, and 2411 of title 19, United States Code; section 1701 of title 50, United States Code; and trade agreement implementing acts. (d) The United States Trade Representative shall commence the public consultation process set out in section 4611(b) of title 19, United States Code, with respect to the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) in preparation for the July 2026 review of the USMCA. Additionally, the United States Trade Representative, in consultation with the heads of other relevant executive departments and agencies, shall assess the impact of the USMCA on American workers, farmers, ranchers, service providers, and other businesses and make recommendations regarding the United States’ participation in the agreement. The United States Trade Representative shall also report to appropriate congressional committees on the operation of the USMCA and related matters consistent with section 4611(b) of title 19, United States Code. (e) The Secretary of the Treasury shall review and assess the policies and practices of major United States trading partners with respect to the rate of exchange between their currencies and the United States dollar pursuant to section 4421 of title 19, United States Code, and section 5305 of title 22, United States Code. The Secretary of the Treasury shall recommend appropriate measures to counter currency manipulation or misalignment that prevents effective balance of payments adjustments or that provides trading partners with an unfair competitive advantage in international trade, and shall identify any countries that he believes should be designated as currency manipulators. (f) The United States Trade Representative shall review existing United States trade agreements and sectoral trade agreements and recommend any revisions that may be necessary or appropriate to achieve or maintain the general level of reciprocal and mutually advantageous concessions with respect to free trade agreement partner countries. (g) The United States Trade Representative shall identify countries with which the United States can negotiate agreements on a bilateral or sector-specific basis to obtain export market access for American workers, farmers, ranchers, service providers, and other businesses and shall make recommendations regarding such potential agreements. (h) The Secretary of Commerce shall review policies and regulations regarding the application of antidumping and countervailing duty (AD/CVD) laws, including with regard to transnational subsidies, cost adjustments, affiliations, and “zeroing.” Further, the Secretary of Commerce shall review procedures for conducting verifications pursuant to section 1677m of title 19, United States Code, and assess whether these procedures sufficiently induce compliance by foreign respondents and governments involved in AD/CVD proceedings. The Secretary of Commerce shall consider modifications to these procedures, as appropriate. (i) The Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, in consultation with the United States Trade Representative, shall assess the loss of tariff revenues and the risks from importing counterfeit products and contraband drugs, e.g., fentanyl, that each result from the current implementation of the $800 or less, duty-free de minimis exemption under section 1321 of title 19, United States Code, and shall recommend modifications as warranted to protect both the revenue of the United States and the public health by preventing unlawful importations. (j) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade Representative, shall investigate whether any foreign country subjects United States citizens or corporations to discriminatory or extraterritorial taxes pursuant to section 891 of title 26, United States Code. (k) The United States Trade Representative, in consultation with the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, shall review the impact of all trade agreements — including the World Trade Organization Agreement on Government Procurement — on the volume of Federal procurement covered by Executive Order 13788 of April 18, 2017 (Buy American and Hire American), and shall make recommendations to ensure that such agreements are being implemented in a manner that favors domestic workers and manufacturers, not foreign nations. Sec. 3. Economic and Trade Relations with the People’s Republic of China (PRC). (a) The United States Trade Representative shall review the Economic and Trade Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the People’s Republic of China to determine whether the PRC is acting in accordance with this agreement, and shall recommend appropriate actions to be taken based upon the findings of this review, up to and including the imposition of tariffs or other measures as needed. (b) The United States Trade Representative shall assess the May 14, 2024, report entitled “Four-Year Review of Actions Taken in the Section 301 Investigation: China’s Acts, Policies, and Practices Related to Technology Transfer, Intellectual Property, and Innovation” and consider potential additional tariff modifications as needed under section 2411 of title 19, United States Code — particularly with respect to industrial supply chains and circumvention through third countries, including an updated estimate of the costs imposed by any unfair trade practices identified in such review — and he shall recommend such actions as are necessary to remediate any issues identified in connection with this process. (c) The United States Trade Representative shall investigate other acts, policies, and practices by the PRC that may be unreasonable or discriminatory and that may burden or restrict United States commerce, and shall make recommendations regarding appropriate responsive actions, including, but not limited to, actions authorized by section 2411 of title 19, United States Code. (d) The Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade Representative shall assess legislative proposals regarding Permanent Normal Trade Relations with the PRC and make recommendations regarding any proposed changes to such legislative proposals. (e) The Secretary of Commerce shall assess the status of United States intellectual property rights such as patents, copyrights, and trademarks conferred upon PRC persons, and shall make recommendations to ensure reciprocal and balanced treatment of intellectual property rights with the PRC. Sec. 4. Additional Economic Security Matters. (a) The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the heads of any other relevant agencies, shall conduct a full economic and security review of the United States’ industrial and manufacturing base to assess whether it is necessary to initiate investigations to adjust imports that threaten the national security of the United States under section 1862 of title 19, United States Code. (b) The Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, the United States Trade Representative, and the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, shall review and assess the effectiveness of the exclusions, exemptions, and other import adjustment measures on steel and aluminum under section 1862 of title 19, United States Code, in responding to threats to the national security of the United States, and shall make recommendations based upon the findings of this review. (c) The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce, in cooperation with the heads of other agencies with export control authorities, shall review the United States export control system and advise on modifications in light of developments involving strategic adversaries or geopolitical rivals as well as all other relevant national security and global considerations. Specifically, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce shall assess and make recommendations regarding how to maintain, obtain, and enhance our Nation’s technological edge and how to identify and eliminate loopholes in existing export controls -– especially those that enable the transfer of strategic goods, software, services, and technology to countries to strategic rivals and their proxies. In addition, they shall assess and make recommendations regarding export control enforcement policies and practices, and enforcement mechanisms to incentivize compliance by foreign countries, including appropriate trade and national security measures. (d) The Secretary of Commerce shall review and recommend appropriate action with respect to the rulemaking by the Office of Information and Communication Technology and Services (ICTS) on connected vehicles, and shall consider whether controls on ICTS transactions should be expanded to account for additional connected products. (e) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of any other relevant agencies, shall review whether Executive Order 14105 of August 9, 2023 (Addressing United States Investments in Certain National Security Technologies and Products in Countries of Concern) should be modified or rescinded and replaced, and assess whether the final rule entitled “Provisions Pertaining to U.S. Investments in Certain National Security Technologies and Products in Countries of Concern,” 89 Fed. Reg. 90398 (November 15, 2024), which implements Executive Order 14105, includes sufficient controls to address national security threats. The Secretary of the Treasury shall make recommendations based upon the findings of this review, including potential modifications to the Outbound Investment Security Program. (f) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall assess any distorting impact of foreign government financial contributions or subsidies on United States Federal procurement programs and propose guidance, regulations, or legislation to combat such distortion. (g) The Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall assess the unlawful migration and fentanyl flows from Canada, Mexico, the PRC, and any other relevant jurisdictions and recommend appropriate trade and national security measures to resolve that emergency. Sec. 5. Reports. The results of the reviews and investigations, findings, identifications, and recommendations identified in: (a) sections 2(a), 2(h), 3(d), 3(e), 4(a), 4(b), 4(c), 4(d), and 4(g) shall be delivered to me in a unified report coordinated by the Secretary of Commerce by April 1, 2025; (b) sections 2(b), 2(e), 2(i), 2(j), and 4(e) shall be delivered to me in a unified report coordinated by the Secretary of the Treasury by April 1, 2025; (c) sections 2(c), 2(d), 2(f), 2(g), 2(k), 3(a), 3(b), and 3(c) shall be delivered to me in a unified report coordinated by the United States Trade Representative by April 1, 2025; and (d) section 4(f) shall be delivered to me by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget by April 30, 2025. Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
President Donald J. Trump took office just one month ago, but has already accomplished more than most presidents do in their entire term as he makes good on his promise to usher in the New Golden Age of America. Here is a non-comprehensive list of President Trump’s wins after just one month: SECURING OUR HOMELAND: PROTECTING AMERICAN WORKERS AND FOSTERING ECONOMIC GROWTH: LOWERING THE COST OF LIVING: RE-ESTABLISHING AMERICAN STRENGTH: UNLEASHING AMERICAN ENERGY: BRINGING BACK COMMON SENSE: RESTORING ACCOUNTABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY IN GOVERNMENT EMPOWERING THE AMERICAN PEOPLE 
Every day, untold numbers of our friends, relatives, neighbors, and coworkers are affected by the devastating affliction of heart disease. As the Nation’s leading cause of death, cardiovascular disease has stolen infinite lives, crushed countless families, and imposed unimaginable heartbreak upon Americans of every walk of life. This American Heart Month, we mourn and pray for those we have lost and recommit ourselves to ending the deadly plight of heart disease once and for all.Thanks to advancements in medicine, science, and technology, our Nation has made tremendous strides in combatting heart disease — and the American people are now better equipped than ever before to receive lifesaving treatments, respond to medical complications, and modify behavior and habits to ensure they can lead long and healthy lives. But even one soul lost to heart disease is a tragedy beyond comprehension. To that end, my Administration will work diligently to save lives, lower healthcare costs, and foster a stronger, safer, and healthier future for every citizen. For as long as I am President, I will always be an unwavering advocate for improving the health of every American.The first step in confronting the cardiac disease crisis is taking concrete action to lower the odds of diagnosis — and encouraging those in our lives to take all necessary measures to root out unhealthy habits. Research has consistently shown that risk factors contributing to heart disease include obesity, high blood pressure and cholesterol, lack of exercise, excessive alcohol use, and smoking. Making small adjustments to our health and routines can yield extraordinary and even life-saving results. My Administration is also steadfastly committed to cracking down on Big Pharma and ending the chronic disease epidemic. And we will fulfill our pledge to investigate what has caused the decades-long increase in health problems and childhood diseases — including obesity, autoimmune disorders, infertility, and autism. As Americans, we owe it to ourselves and our families to take care of our bodies — and to cherish God’s gift of life for as long and as vigorously as we can.As we enter into this American Heart Month, let us seek to improve our health, lengthen our lives, and nurture a culture, a government, and a Nation that upholds the dignity of life and protects the human heart.In acknowledgement of the importance of the ongoing fight against cardiovascular disease, the Congress, by Joint Resolution approved on December 30, 1963, as amended (36 U.S.C. 101), has requested that the President issue an annual proclamation designating February as American Heart Month.NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim February 2025 as American Heart Month, and I invite all Americans to participate in National Wear Red Day on February 7, 2025. I also invite the Governors of the States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, officials of other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, and the American people to join my Administration in recognizing and restating our pledge to fighting heart disease in all its forms. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand thisthird day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 3, 2025.
APPLICATION OF PROTECTING AMERICANS FROM FOREIGN ADVERSARY CONTROLLED APPLICATIONS ACT TO TIKTOK By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Policy. The Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act (the “Act”) (Pub. L. 118-50, div. H) regulates “foreign adversary controlled applications,” specifically those operated by TikTok and any other subsidiary of its China-based parent company, ByteDance Ltd., on national security grounds. Section 2(a) of the Act prohibits entities from distributing, maintaining, or updating certain defined foreign adversary controlled applications within the territory of the United States by providing (A) services for such distribution, maintenance, or updates by means of an online mobile application store or other marketplace; or (B) internet hosting services to enable the distribution, maintenance, or updating of such applications. Section 2(g) of the Act defines “Foreign Adversary Controlled Application” to include websites, desktop applications, mobile applications, and augmented or immersive technology applications operated directly or indirectly by ByteDance Ltd. or TikTok. Under section 2(a) of the Act, the prohibitions of the Act with respect to these entities became effective on January 19, 2025. I have the unique constitutional responsibility for the national security of the United States, the conduct of foreign policy, and other vital executive functions. To fulfill those responsibilities, I intend to consult with my advisors, including the heads of relevant departments and agencies on the national security concerns posed by TikTok, and to pursue a resolution that protects national security while saving a platform used by 170 million Americans. My Administration must also review sensitive intelligence related to those concerns and evaluate the sufficiency of mitigation measures TikTok has taken to date. The unfortunate timing of section 2(a) of the Act — one day before I took office as the 47th President of the United States — interferes with my ability to assess the national security and foreign policy implications of the Act’s prohibitions before they take effect. This timing also interferes with my ability to negotiate a resolution to avoid an abrupt shutdown of the TikTok platform while addressing national security concerns. Accordingly, I am instructing the Attorney General not to take any action to enforce the Act for a period of 75 days from today to allow my Administration an opportunity to determine the appropriate course forward in an orderly way that protects national security while avoiding an abrupt shutdown of a communications platform used by millions of Americans. Sec. 2. Action. (a) I hereby order the Attorney General not to take any action on behalf of the United States to enforce the Act for 75 days from the date of this order, to permit my Administration an opportunity to determine the appropriate course of action with respect to TikTok. During this period, the Department of Justice shall take no action to enforce the Act or impose any penalties against any entity for any noncompliance with the Act, including for distributing, maintaining, or updating (or enabling the distribution, maintenance, or updating) of any foreign adversary controlled application as defined in the Act. In light of this direction, even after the expiration of the above-specified period, the Department of Justice shall not take any action to enforce the Act or impose any penalties against any entity for any conduct that occurred during the above-specified period or any period prior to the issuance of this order, including the period of time from January 19, 2025, to the signing of this order. (b) The Attorney General shall take all appropriate action to issue written guidance to implement the provisions of subsection (a). (c) I further order the Attorney General to issue a letter to each provider stating that there has been no violation of the statute and that there is no liability for any conduct that occurred during the above-specified period, as well as for any conduct from the effective date of the Act until the issuance of this Executive Order. (d) Because of the national security interests at stake and because section 2(d) of the Act vests authority for investigations and enforcement of the Act only in the Attorney General, attempted enforcement by the States or private parties represents an encroachment on the powers of the Executive. The Attorney General shall exercise all available authority to preserve and defend the Executive’s exclusive authority to enforce the Act. Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
For decades, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has been unaccountable to taxpayers as it funnels massive sums of money to the ridiculous — and, in many cases, malicious — pet projects of entrenched bureaucrats, with next-to-no oversight.Here are only a few examples of the WASTE and ABUSE: The list literally goes on and on — and it has all been happening for decades.Under President Trump, the waste, fraud, and abuse ENDS NOW.
Hardworking Americans are the backbone of our great Nation. Our workforce is the best in the world, and my Administration is dedicated to giving our students and workers the tools they need to succeed in a time where emerging technologies are advancing at an unprecedented pace. During Career and Technical Education Month, we reaffirm our belief in excellence by putting America first and investing in the best training and retraining opportunities that will result in a stronger workforce and a booming economy. Under my leadership, America will once again champion a culture where hard work is rewarded and equip our people with real skills for real careers that our communities are in desperate need to fill. During my first term, I proudly signed the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, which provided millions of students with excellent vocational opportunities. And we saw unparalleled growth and economic development, empowering students and workers to undertake new high-wage careers, especially in science, technology, and engineering. We will make technology work for Americans, not Americans for technology. America is well-positioned at the forefront of innovation and entrepreneurship, and our history of ingenuity and grit is unrivaled. Over the next 4 years, we will rebuild our economy, raise wages, and strengthen families. My Administration will invest in the next generation and expand access to high-quality career and technical education for all Americans. We will unleash the enormous potential of the American people and provide students and workers with the necessary skills training to ensure that our Nation dominates the 21st century. This February, we celebrate our incredible workers who are making America bigger, better, and more beautiful than ever before. By offering more alternatives to higher education, we will train college-aged kids in relevant skills for the 21st century economy. We will put America first, invest in our people, and lead the world into a new golden age. NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim February 2025 as Career and Technical Education Month. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand thisthird day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in anticipation of the 250th anniversary of American Independence on July 4, 2026, it is hereby ordered:Section 1. Purpose. It is the policy of the United States, and a purpose of this order, to provide a grand celebration worthy of the momentous occasion of the 250th anniversary of American Independence on July 4, 2026. It is also the purpose of this order to take other actions to honor the history of our great Nation.Sec. 2. Establishing the White House Task Force on Celebrating America’s 250th Birthday. (a) There is hereby established the White House Task Force on Celebrating America’s 250th Birthday (Task Force 250).(b) The President shall be the Chair of Task Force 250 and the Vice President will serve as Vice Chair. The Chair shall appoint an Executive Director, who shall administer and execute the day-to-day operations of Task Force 250, and who shall report through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. The Chair, the Vice Chair, or a member of Task Force 250 designated by the Chair, shall convene regular meetings of Task Force 250, determine its agenda, and direct its work, consistent with this order. The Executive Director and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall assist in the performance of these duties. The Chair may designate any member of the Task Force to preside over meetings of the Task Force. (c) In addition to the Chair and Vice Chair, Task Force 250 shall consist of the following members:(i) the Secretary of State;(ii) the Secretary of the Treasury;(iii) the Secretary of Defense;(iv) the Secretary of the Interior; (v) the Secretary of Agriculture;(vi) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;(vii) the Secretary of Education;(viii) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;(ix) the Deputy Chief of Staff for Legislative Affairs;(x) the Cabinet Secretary and Deputy Chief of Staff;(xi) the Director of Speechwriting;(xii) the Chair of the National Endowment for the Humanities;(xiii) the Chair of the National Endowment for the Arts;(xiv) the Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services; and(xv) the heads of such other executive departments, agencies, and offices that the Chair or the Vice Chair may, from time to time, designate or invite to participate.(d) The Chair and the Vice Chair, as they deem appropriate, shall invite the Executive Director of the United States Semiquincentennial Commission to provide recommendations and advice to Task Force 250. (e) Task Force 250 shall coordinate with the executive departments and agencies (agencies) to plan, organize, and execute an extraordinary celebration of the 250th Anniversary of American Independence and shall coordinate agencies’ communications with the United States Semiquincentennial Commission. In addition, the Executive Director may seek information or advice from such other agencies as Task Force 250 shall direct.(f) For administrative purposes, the Task Force shall be housed in the Department of Defense, which shall provide funding and administrative support for Task Force 250, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(g) Agencies shall provide a report to Task Force 250 regarding their respective planning and activities with respect to the celebration of the 250th Anniversary of American Independence. These reports should be submitted to the Executive Director of Task Force 250 no later than March 1, 2025.(h) Task Force 250 shall terminate on December 31, 2026, unless extended by the President.Sec. 3. National Garden of American Heroes. (a) Executive Order 13934 of July 3, 2020 (Building and Rebuilding Monuments to American Heroes) and Executive Order 13978 of January 18, 2021 (Building the National Garden of American Heroes) are reinstated as they were prior to issuance of Executive Order 14029 of May 14, 2021. (b) The Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall recommend to the President additional historically significant Americans for inclusion in the National Garden of American Heroes, to bring the total number of heroes to 250.(c) Section 3(c)(ii) of Executive Order 13934 is amended by striking “prior to the 250th anniversary of the proclamation of the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 2026” and inserting in its place “as expeditiously as possible”.Sec. 4. Protecting America’s Monuments from Vandalism. Executive Order 13933 of June 26, 2020 (Protecting American Monuments, Memorials, and Statues and Combatting Recent Criminal Violence) is hereby reinstated as it was prior to the issuance of Executive Order 14029 of May 14, 2021. Recent examples of conduct necessitating reinstatement of this order include pro-Hamas-related vandalism of historically significant public monuments and related assaults on Federal officers and employees following October 7, 2023, including the vandalism of the exterior of the Department of the Treasury and of statues in Lafayette Square in Washington, D.C. on June 8, 2024, and the assaults on Federal officers and vandalism of the Christopher Columbus Memorial Fountain and Freedom Bell at Union Station in Washington, D.C. on July 24, 2024. Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) — the brainchild of Sen. Elizabeth Warren — has long functioned as another woke, weaponized arm of the bureaucracy that leverages its power against certain industries and individuals disfavored by so-called “elites.” For example: Under the administration of President Donald J. Trump, the weaponization ends right now. 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. (a) As Chief Executive and as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, I have no more solemn responsibility than protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the United States along our national borders. The protection of a nation’s territorial integrity and national boundaries is paramount for its security. (b) The Armed Forces of the United States have played a long and well-established role in securing our borders against threats of invasion, against unlawful forays by foreign nationals into the United States, and against other transnational criminal activities that violate our laws and threaten the peace, harmony, and tranquility of the Nation. These threats have taken a variety of forms over our Nation’s history, but the Armed Forces have consistently played an integral role in protecting the sovereignty of the United States. (c) Threats against our Nation’s sovereignty continue today, and it is essential that the Armed Forces staunchly continue to participate in the defense of our territorial integrity and sovereignty. A National Emergency currently exists along the southern border of the United States. Unchecked unlawful mass migration and the unimpeded flow of opiates across our borders continue to endanger the safety and security of the American people and encourage further lawlessness. Accordingly, through this order, I am acting in accordance with my solemn duty to protect and defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the United States along our national borders. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to ensure that the Armed Forces of the United States prioritize the protection of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the United States along our national borders. Sec. 3. Implementation. The Secretary of Defense shall: (a) No later than 10 days from the effective date of this order, deliver to the President a revision to the Unified Command Plan that assigns United States Northern Command (USNORTHCOM) the mission to seal the borders and maintain the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and security of the United States by repelling forms of invasion including unlawful mass migration, narcotics trafficking, human smuggling and trafficking, and other criminal activities. (b) On the effective date of this order, add the following requirements to the Contingency Planning Guidance and Guidance for the Employment of the Force: (i) A Level 3 planning requirement for USNORTHCOM to seal the borders and maintain the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and security of the United States by repelling forms of invasion, including unlawful mass migration, narcotics trafficking, human smuggling and trafficking, and other criminal activities, with a commander’s estimate due to the Secretary of Defense within 30 days of the effective date of this order. (ii) A campaign planning requirement for USNORTHCOM to provide steady-state southern border security, seal the border, and maintain the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and security of the United States by repelling forms of invasion, including unlawful mass migration, narcotics trafficking, human smuggling and trafficking, and other criminal activities. (iii) Continuous assessments of all available options to protect the sovereign territory of the United States from mass unlawful entry and impingement on our national sovereignty and security by foreign nations and transnational criminal organizations. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. It is the policy of my Administration to dramatically reduce the size of the Federal Government, while increasing its accountability to the American people. This order commences a reduction in the elements of the Federal bureaucracy that the President has determined are unnecessary. Reducing the size of the Federal Government will minimize Government waste and abuse, reduce inflation, and promote American freedom and innovation. Sec. 2. Reducing the Scope of the Federal Bureaucracy. (a) The non-statutory components and functions of the following governmental entities shall be eliminated to the maximum extent consistent with applicable law, and such entities shall reduce the performance of their statutory functions and associated personnel to the minimum presence and function required by law:(i) the Presidio Trust;(ii) the Inter-American Foundation;(iii) the United States African Development Foundation; and(iv) the United States Institute of Peace.(b) Within 14 days of the date of this order, the head of each unnecessary governmental entity listed in subsection (a) of this section shall submit a report to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB Director) confirming compliance with this order and stating whether the governmental entity, or any components or functions thereof, are statutorily required and to what extent.(c) In reviewing budget requests submitted by the governmental entities listed in subsection (a) of this section, the OMB Director or the head of any executive department or agency charged with reviewing grant requests by such entities shall, to the extent consistent with applicable law and except insofar as necessary to effectuate an expected termination, reject funding requests for such governmental entities to the extent they are inconsistent with this order.(d) The Presidential Memorandum of November 13, 1961 (Need for Greater Coordination of Regional and Field Activities of the Government), is hereby revoked. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM Director) is directed to initiate the process to withdraw the regulations at title 5, part 960, Code of Federal Regulations, thereby eliminating the Federal Executive Boards. (e) The OPM Director is directed to initiate the process to withdraw the regulations at title 5, part 362, subpart D, Code of Federal Regulations, and to take any other steps necessary to promptly terminate the Presidential Management Fellows Program. On the effective date of the final regulations promulgated by the OPM Director, Executive Order 13318 of November 21, 2003, is revoked and Executive Order 13562 of December 27, 2010, is amended by:(i) striking from section 2 the words “along with the Presidential Management Fellows Program, as modified herein,”;(ii) striking section 5;(iii) striking from section 6(b) the words “or PMF Programs” and inserting in their place “program”;(iv) striking from section 7(b)(iii) the words “the competitive service of Interns, Recent Graduates, or PMFs (or a Government-wide combined conversion cap applicable to all three categories together)” and inserting in their place “the competitive service of Interns or Recent Graduates (or a Government-wide combined conversion cap applicable to both categories together)”; and(v) redesignating sections 6, 7, 8, and 9 as sections 5, 6, 7, and 8 respectively. (f) Within 14 days of the date of this order, the following heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall take the following actions with respect to the following Federal Advisory Committees within their respective agencies:(i) the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall terminate the Advisory Committee on Voluntary Foreign Aid; (ii) the Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall terminate the Academic Research Council and the Credit Union Advisory Council;(iii) the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall terminate the Community Bank Advisory Council;(iv) the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall terminate the Secretary’s Advisory Committee on Long COVID; and(v) the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services shall terminate the Health Equity Advisory Committee.(g) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall identify and submit to the President additional unnecessary governmental entities and Federal Advisory Committees that should be terminated on grounds that they are unnecessary. Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 19, 2025. 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Purpose and Policy. The Federal responses to Hurricane Helene and other recent disasters demonstrate the need to drastically improve the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (“FEMA’s) efficacy, priorities, and competence, including evaluating whether FEMA’s bureaucracy in disaster response ultimately harms the agency’s ability to successfully respond. Despite obligating nearly $30 billion in disaster aid each of the past three years, FEMA has managed to leave vulnerable Americans without the resources or support they need when they need it most. There are serious concerns of political bias in FEMA. Indeed, at least one former FEMA responder has stated that FEMA managers directed her to avoid homes of individuals supporting the campaign of Donald J. Trump for President. And it has lost mission focus, diverting limited staff and resources to support missions beyond its scope and authority, spending well over a billion dollars to welcome illegal aliens. Americans deserve an immediate, effective, and impartial response to and recovery from disasters. FEMA therefore requires a full-scale review, by individuals highly experienced at effective disaster response and recovery, who shall recommend to the President improvements or structural changes to promote the national interest and enable national resilience. Sec. 2. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established the Federal Emergency Management Agency Review Council (“Council”). (b) The Council shall be composed of not more than 20 members. The Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of Defense shall be members of the Council. The remaining members shall include relevant agency heads and distinguished individuals and representatives from sectors outside of the Federal Government appointed by the President. These non-Federal members shall have diverse perspectives and expertise in disaster relief and assistance, emergency preparedness, natural disasters, Federal-State relationships, and budget management. (c) The Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of Defense shall serve as Co-Chairs of the Council. The Co-Chairs may designate up to two Vice Chairs of the Council from among the non-Federal members of the Council, to support the Co-Chairs in the leadership and organization of the Council. Sec. 3. Functions. (a) The Council shall advise the President, through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, on the existing ability of FEMA to capably and impartially address disasters occurring within the United States and shall advise the President on all recommended changes related to FEMA to best serve the national interest. (b) The Council shall meet regularly and shall: (i) respond to requests from the President, through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security Affairs, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, or the Co-Chairs for information, analysis, evaluation, or advice; (ii) solicit information and ideas from a broad range of stakeholders, including Americans affected by natural disasters; the research community; the private sector; State, local, and Tribal governments; foundations; and nonprofit organizations; (c) The Council shall produce a report for the President that includes the following: (i) An assessment of the adequacy of FEMA’s response to disasters during the previous 4 years, including sufficiency of staffing; (ii) A comparison of the FEMA responses with State, local, and private sector responses — including timeliness of response, supplies provided, efficacy, and services (including communications and electricity) provided — during the same period; (iii) An account of the commentary and debate about the role and operation of FEMA in our Federal system and about the functioning of disaster relief, assistance, and preparedness in the United States; (iv) The historical background of other periods in the Nation’s history both before FEMA was part of DHS and before FEMA existed and methods by which disaster aid and relief were then provided; (v) The traditional role of States and their coordination with the Federal Government in securing the life, liberty, and property of their citizens in preparation for, during, and after disasters; (vi) An evaluation of whether FEMA can serve its functions as a support agency, providing supplemental Federal assistance, to the States rather than supplanting State control of disaster relief; (vii) Other recommended improvements to FEMA in the current statutory structure; and (viii) An analysis of the principal arguments in the public debate for and against FEMA reform, including an appraisal of the merits and legality of particular reform proposals. (d) The Council shall solicit public comment, including other expert views, to ensure that its work is informed by a broad spectrum of ideas. (e) The Council shall hold its first public meeting within 90 days of the date of this order and submit its report to the President within 180 days of the date of the Council’s first public meeting. Sec. 4. Administration. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Council with information concerning disaster preparedness and relief matters when requested by the Council Co-Chairs and as required for the purpose of carrying out the Council’s functions. (b) In consultation with the Co-Chairs, the Council is authorized to create standing subcommittees and ad hoc groups, including technical advisory groups, to assist the Council and provide preliminary information directly to the Council. (c) The Department of Homeland Security shall provide such funding and administrative and technical support as the Council may require, to the extent permitted by law and as authorized by existing appropriations. (d) Members of the Council shall serve without any compensation for their work on the Council, but may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). (e) Insofar as the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), may apply to the Council, any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the Congress, shall be performed by the Secretary of Homeland Security, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. Sec. 5. Termination. The Council shall terminate 1 year from the date of this order unless extended by the President. Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 24, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, I hereby proclaim: America’s sovereignty is under attack. Our southern border is overrun by cartels, criminal gangs, known terrorists, human traffickers, smugglers, unvetted military-age males from foreign adversaries, and illicit narcotics that harm Americans, including America. This invasion has caused widespread chaos and suffering in our country over the last 4 years. It has led to the horrific and inexcusable murders of many innocent American citizens, including women and children, at the hands of illegal aliens. Foreign criminal gangs and cartels have begun seizing control of parts of cities, attacking our most vulnerable citizens, and terrorizing Americans beyond the control of local law enforcement. Cartels control vast territories just south of our southern border, effectively controlling who can and cannot travel to the United States from Mexico. Hundreds of thousands of Americans have tragically died from drug overdoses because of the illicit narcotics that have flowed across the southern border. This assault on the American people and the integrity of America’s sovereign borders represents a grave threat to our Nation. Because of the gravity and emergency of this present danger and imminent threat, it is necessary for the Armed Forces to take all appropriate action to assist the Department of Homeland Security in obtaining full operational control of the southern border. To protect the security and safety of United States citizens, to protect each of the States against invasion, and to uphold my duty to take care that the laws be faithfully executed, it is my responsibility as President to ensure that the illegal entry of aliens into the United States via the southern border be immediately and entirely stopped. As Commander in Chief, I have no more solemn duty than to protect the American people. NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including sections 201 and 301 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), hereby declare that a national emergency exists at the southern border of the United States, and that section 12302 of title 10, United States Code, is invoked and made available, according to its terms, to the Secretaries of the military departments concerned, subject to the direction of the Secretary of Defense. To provide additional authority to the Department of Defense to support the Federal Government’s response to the emergency at the southern border, I hereby declare that this emergency requires use of the Armed Forces and, in accordance with section 301 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1631), that the construction authority provided in section 2808 of title 10, United States Code, is invoked and made available, according to its terms, to the Secretary of Defense and, at the discretion of the Secretary of Defense, to the Secretaries of the military departments. I hereby direct as follows: Section 1. Deployment of Personnel and Resources. The Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary of each relevant military department, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, shall order as many units or members of the Armed Forces, including the Ready Reserve and the National Guard, as the Secretary of Defense determines to be appropriate to support the activities of the Secretary of Homeland Security in obtaining complete operational control of the southern border of the United States. The Secretary of Defense shall further take all appropriate action to facilitate the operational needs of the Secretary of Homeland Security along the southern border, including through the provision of appropriate detention space, transportation (including aircraft), and other logistics services in support of civilian-controlled law enforcement operations. Sec. 2. Additional Physical Barriers. The Secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security shall immediately take all appropriate action, consistent with law, including 10 U.S.C. 2214, to construct additional physical barriers along the southern border. To the extent possible, the Secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security shall coordinate with any Governor of a State that is willing to assist with the deployment of any physical infrastructure to improve operational security at the southern border. Sec. 3. Unmanned Aerial Systems. The Secretary of Transportation and the Federal Communications Commission shall, consistent with applicable law, consider waiving all applicable Federal Aviation Administration and Federal Communications Commission regulations or policies, respectively, that restrict the Department of Homeland Security’s ability to counter unmanned aerial systems within 5 miles of the southern border. Sec. 4. Revision of Policies and Strategies. The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Attorney General, shall take all appropriate action, consistent with law, to prioritize the impedance and denial of the unauthorized physical entry of aliens across the southern border of the United States, and to ensure that use of force policies prioritize the safety and security of Department of Homeland Security personnel and of members of the Armed Forces. Sec. 5. Revocation. Proclamation 10142 of January 20, 2021 (Termination of Emergency With Respect to the Southern Border of the United States and Redirection of Funds Diverted to Border Wall Construction), is hereby revoked. Sec. 6. Reporting Requirement. (a) Within 30 days of the date of this proclamation, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the President, through the Homeland Security Advisor, a report outlining all actions taken to fulfill the requirements and objectives of this proclamation; and (b) Within 90 days of the date of this proclamation, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a joint report to the President about the conditions at the southern border of the United States and any recommendations regarding additional actions that may be necessary to obtain complete operational control of the southern border, including whether to invoke the Insurrection Act of 1807. Sec. 7. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This proclamation shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (“NEA”), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. The energy and critical minerals (“energy”) identification, leasing, development, production, transportation, refining, and generation capacity of the United States are all far too inadequate to meet our Nation’s needs. We need a reliable, diversified, and affordable supply of energy to drive our Nation’s manufacturing, transportation, agriculture, and defense industries, and to sustain the basics of modern life and military preparedness. Caused by the harmful and shortsighted policies of the previous administration, our Nation’s inadequate energy supply and infrastructure causes and makes worse the high energy prices that devastate Americans, particularly those living on low- and fixed-incomes. This active threat to the American people from high energy prices is exacerbated by our Nation’s diminished capacity to insulate itself from hostile foreign actors. Energy security is an increasingly crucial theater of global competition. In an effort to harm the American people, hostile state and non-state foreign actors have targeted our domestic energy infrastructure, weaponized our reliance on foreign energy, and abused their ability to cause dramatic swings within international commodity markets. An affordable and reliable domestic supply of energy is a fundamental requirement for the national and economic security of any nation. The integrity and expansion of our Nation’s energy infrastructure —- from coast to coast -— is an immediate and pressing priority for the protection of the United States’ national and economic security. It is imperative that the Federal government puts the physical and economic wellbeing of the American people first. Moreover, the United States has the potential to use its unrealized energy resources domestically, and to sell to international allies and partners a reliable, diversified, and affordable supply of energy. This would create jobs and economic prosperity for Americans forgotten in the present economy, improve the United States’ trade balance, help our country compete with hostile foreign powers, strengthen relations with allies and partners, and support international peace and security. Accordingly, our Nation’s dangerous energy situation inflicts unnecessary and perilous constraints on our foreign policy. The policies of the previous administration have driven our Nation into a national emergency, where a precariously inadequate and intermittent energy supply, and an increasingly unreliable grid, require swift and decisive action. Without immediate remedy, this situation will dramatically deteriorate in the near future due to a high demand for energy and natural resources to power the next generation of technology. The United States’ ability to remain at the forefront of technological innovation depends on a reliable supply of energy and the integrity of our Nation’s electrical grid. Our Nation’s current inadequate development of domestic energy resources leaves us vulnerable to hostile foreign actors and poses an imminent and growing threat to the United States’ prosperity and national security. These numerous problems are most pronounced in our Nation’s Northeast and West Coast, where dangerous State and local policies jeopardize our Nation’s core national defense and security needs, and devastate the prosperity of not only local residents but the entire United States population. The United States’ insufficient energy production, transportation, refining, and generation constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to our Nation’s economy, national security, and foreign policy. In light of these findings, I hereby declare a national emergency. Sec. 2. Emergency Approvals. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies (“agencies”) shall identify and exercise any lawful emergency authorities available to them, as well as all other lawful authorities they may possess, to facilitate the identification, leasing, siting, production, transportation, refining, and generation of domestic energy resources, including, but not limited to, on Federal lands. If an agency assesses that use of either Federal eminent domain authorities or authorities afforded under the Defense Production Act (Public Law 81-774, 50 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.) are necessary to achieve this objective, the agency shall submit recommendations for a course of action to the President, through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. (b) Consistent with 42 U.S.C. 7545(c)(4)(C)(ii)(III), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, after consultation with, and concurrence by, the Secretary of Energy, shall consider issuing emergency fuel waivers to allow the year-round sale of E15 gasoline to meet any projected temporary shortfalls in the supply of gasoline across the Nation. Sec. 3. Expediting the Delivery of Energy Infrastructure. (a) To facilitate the Nation’s energy supply, agencies shall identify and use all relevant lawful emergency and other authorities available to them to expedite the completion of all authorized and appropriated infrastructure, energy, environmental, and natural resources projects that are within the identified authority of each of the Secretaries to perform or to advance. (b) To protect the collective national and economic security of the United States, agencies shall identify and use all lawful emergency or other authorities available to them to facilitate the supply, refining, and transportation of energy in and through the West Coast of the United States, Northeast of the United States, and Alaska. (c) The Secretaries shall provide such reports regarding activities under this section as may be requested by the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy. Sec. 4. Emergency Regulations and Nationwide Permits Under the Clean Water Act (CWA) and Other Statutes Administered by the Army Corps of Engineers. (a) Within 30 days from the date of this order, the heads of all agencies, as well as the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall: (i) identify planned or potential actions to facilitate the Nation’s energy supply that may be subject to emergency treatment pursuant to the regulations and nationwide permits promulgated by the Corps, or jointly by the Corps and EPA, pursuant to section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. 1344, section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of March 3, 1899, 33 U.S.C. 403, and section 103 of the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1413 (collectively, the “emergency Army Corps permitting provisions”); and (ii) shall provide a summary report, listing such actions, to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”); the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works; the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy; and the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ). Such report may be combined, as appropriate, with any other reports required by this order. (b) Agencies are directed to use, to the fullest extent possible and consistent with applicable law, the emergency Army Corps permitting provisions to facilitate the Nation’s energy supply. (c) Within 30 days following the submission of the initial summary report described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section, each department and agency shall provide a status report to the OMB Director; the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works; the Director of the National Economic Council; and the Chairman of the CEQ. Each such report shall list actions taken within subsection (a)(i) of this section, shall list the status of any previously reported planned or potential actions, and shall list any new planned or potential actions that fall within subsection (a)(i). Such status reports shall thereafter be provided to these officials at least every 30 days for the duration of the national emergency and may be combined, as appropriate, with any other reports required by this order. (d) The Secretary of the Army, acting through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, shall be available to consult promptly with agencies and to take other prompt and appropriate action concerning the application of the emergency Army Corps permitting provisions. The Administrator of the EPA shall provide prompt cooperation to the Secretary of the Army and to agencies in connection with the discharge of the responsibilities described in this section. Sec. 5. Endangered Species Act (ESA) Emergency Consultation Regulations. (a) No later than 30 days from the date of this order, the heads of all agencies tasked in this order shall: (i) identify planned or potential actions to facilitate the Nation’s energy supply that may be subject to the regulation on consultations in emergencies, 50 C.F.R. 402.05, promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to the Endangered Species Act (“ESA”), 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.; and (ii) provide a summary report, listing such actions, to the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Commerce, the OMB Director, the Director of the National Economic Council, and the Chairman of CEQ. Such report may be combined, as appropriate, with any other reports required by this order. (b) Agencies are directed to use, to the maximum extent permissible under applicable law, the ESA regulation on consultations in emergencies, to facilitate the Nation’s energy supply. (c) Within 30 days following the submission of the initial summary report described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section, the head of each agency shall provide a status report to the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Commerce, the OMB Director, the Director of the National Economic Council, and the Chairman of CEQ. Each such report shall list actions taken within the categories described in subsection (a)(i) of this section, the status of any previously reported planned or potential actions, and any new planned or potential actions within these categories. Such status reports shall thereafter be provided to these officials at least every 30 days for the duration of the national emergency and may be combined, as appropriate, with any other reports required by this order. The OMB Director may grant discretionary exemptions from this reporting requirement. (d) The Secretary of the Interior shall ensure that the Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service, or the Director’s authorized representative, is available to consult promptly with agencies and to take other prompt and appropriate action concerning the application of the ESA’s emergency regulations. The Secretary of Commerce shall ensure that the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries for the National Marine Fisheries Service, or the Assistant Administrator’s authorized representative, is available for such consultation and to take such other action. Sec. 6. Convening the Endangered Species Act Committee. (a) In acting as Chairman of the Endangered Species Act Committee, the Secretary of the Interior shall convene the Endangered Species Act Committee not less than quarterly, unless otherwise required by law, to review and consider any lawful applications submitted by an agency, the Governor of a State, or any applicant for a permit or license who submits for exemption from obligations imposed by Section 7 of the ESA. (b) To the extent practicable under the law, the Secretary of the Interior shall ensure a prompt and efficient review of all submissions described in subsection (a) of this section, to include identification of any legal deficiencies, in order to ensure an initial determination within 20 days of receipt and the ability to convene the Endangered Species Act Committee to resolve the submission within 140 days of such initial determination of eligibility. (c) In the event that the committee has no pending applications for review, the committee or its designees shall nonetheless convene to identify obstacles to domestic energy infrastructure specifically deriving from implementation of the ESA or the Marine Mammal Protection Act, to include regulatory reform efforts, species listings, and other related matters with the aim of developing procedural, regulatory, and interagency improvements. Sec. 7. Coordinated Infrastructure Assistance. (a) In collaboration with the Secretaries of Interior and Energy, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct an assessment of the Department of Defense’s ability to acquire and transport the energy, electricity, or fuels needed to protect the homeland and to conduct operations abroad, and, within 60 days, shall submit this assessment to the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. This assessment shall identify specific vulnerabilities, including, but not limited to, potentially insufficient transportation and refining infrastructure across the Nation, with a focus on such vulnerabilities within the Northeast and West Coast regions of the United States. The assessment shall also identify and recommend the requisite authorities and resources to remedy such vulnerabilities, consistent with applicable law. (b) In accordance with section 301 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1631), the construction authority provided in section 2808 of title 10, United States Code, is invoked and made available, according to its terms, to the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, to address any vulnerabilities identified in the assessment mandated by subsection (a). Any such recommended actions shall be submitted to the President for review, through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy. Sec. 8. Definitions. For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply: (a) The term “energy” or “energy resources” means crude oil, natural gas, lease condensates, natural gas liquids, refined petroleum products, uranium, coal, biofuels, geothermal heat, the kinetic movement of flowing water, and critical minerals, as defined by 30 U.S.C. 1606 (a)(3). (b) The term “production” means the extraction or creation of energy. (c) The term “transportation” means the physical movement of energy, including through, but not limited to, pipelines. (d) The term “refining” means the physical or chemical change of energy into a form that can be used by consumers or users, including, but not limited to, the creation of gasoline, diesel, ethanol, aviation fuel, or the beneficiation, enrichment, or purification of minerals. (e) The term “generation” means the use of energy to produce electricity or thermal power and the transmission of electricity from its site of generation. (f) The term “energy supply” means the production, transportation, refining, and generation of energy. Sec. 9. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Policy and Purpose. More than 50 years after the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., the Federal Government has not released to the public all of its records related to those events. Their families and the American people deserve transparency and truth. It is in the national interest to finally release all records related to these assassinations without delay. The President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 required all records related to the assassination of President Kennedy to be publicly disclosed in full by October 26, 2017, unless the President certifies that: (i) continued postponement is made necessary by an identifiable harm to the military defense, intelligence operations, law enforcement, or conduct of foreign relations; and (ii) the identifiable harm is of such gravity that it outweighs the public interest in disclosure. President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, section 5(g)(2)(D), Public Law 102-526, 106 Stat. 3443, 3448–49, codified at 44 U.S.C. 2107 note. I previously accepted proposed redactions from executive departments and agencies (agencies) in 2017 and 2018, but ordered the continued re-evaluation of those remaining redactions. See Temporary Certification for Certain Records Related to the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy, 82 Fed. Reg. 50,307–08 (Oct. 31, 2017); Certification for Certain Records Related to the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy, 83 Fed. Reg. 19, 157–58 (Apr. 26, 2018). In the Presidential Memorandum of April 26, 2018, I also ordered agencies to re-review each of those redactions over the next 3 years and disclose information that no longer warrants continued withholding under the standard set forth in section 5(g)(2)(D) of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992. President Biden issued subsequent certifications with respect to these records in 2021, 2022, and 2023, which gave agencies additional time to review the records and withhold information from public disclosure. See Temporary Certification Regarding Disclosure of Information in Certain Records Related to the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy, 86 Fed. Reg. 59,599 (Oct. 22, 2021); Certifications Regarding Disclosure of Information in Certain Records Related to the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy, 87 Fed. Reg. 77,967 (Dec. 15, 2022); Certification Regarding Disclosure of Information in Certain Records Related to the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy, 88 Fed. Reg. 43,247 (June 30, 2023). I have now determined that the continued redaction and withholding of information from records pertaining to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy is not consistent with the public interest and the release of these records is long overdue. And although no Act of Congress directs the release of information pertaining to the assassinations of Senator Robert F. Kennedy and the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., I have determined that the release of all records in the Federal Government’s possession pertaining to each of those assassinations is also in the public interest. Sec. 2. Declassification and Disclosure. (a) Within 15 days of the date of this order, the Director of National Intelligence and the Attorney General shall, in coordination with the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and the Counsel to the President, present a plan to the President for the full and complete release of records relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. (b) Within 45 days of the date of this order, the Director of National Intelligence and the Attorney General shall, in coordination with the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and the Counsel to the President, review records related to the assassinations of Senator Robert F. Kennedy and the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and present a plan to the President for the full and complete release of these records. Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 23, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 7301 of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. Across the country, ideologues who deny the biological reality of sex have increasingly used legal and other socially coercive means to permit men to self-identify as women and gain access to intimate single-sex spaces and activities designed for women, from women’s domestic abuse shelters to women’s workplace showers. This is wrong. Efforts to eradicate the biological reality of sex fundamentally attack women by depriving them of their dignity, safety, and well-being. The erasure of sex in language and policy has a corrosive impact not just on women but on the validity of the entire American system. Basing Federal policy on truth is critical to scientific inquiry, public safety, morale, and trust in government itself. This unhealthy road is paved by an ongoing and purposeful attack against the ordinary and longstanding use and understanding of biological and scientific terms, replacing the immutable biological reality of sex with an internal, fluid, and subjective sense of self unmoored from biological facts. Invalidating the true and biological category of “woman” improperly transforms laws and policies designed to protect sex-based opportunities into laws and policies that undermine them, replacing longstanding, cherished legal rights and values with an identity-based, inchoate social concept. Accordingly, my Administration will defend women’s rights and protect freedom of conscience by using clear and accurate language and policies that recognize women are biologically female, and men are biologically male. Sec. 2. Policy and Definitions. It is the policy of the United States to recognize two sexes, male and female. These sexes are not changeable and are grounded in fundamental and incontrovertible reality. Under my direction, the Executive Branch will enforce all sex-protective laws to promote this reality, and the following definitions shall govern all Executive interpretation of and application of Federal law and administration policy: (a) “Sex” shall refer to an individual’s immutable biological classification as either male or female. “Sex” is not a synonym for and does not include the concept of “gender identity.” (b) “Women” or “woman” and “girls” or “girl” shall mean adult and juvenile human females, respectively. (c) “Men” or “man” and “boys” or “boy” shall mean adult and juvenile human males, respectively. (d) “Female” means a person belonging, at conception, to the sex that produces the large reproductive cell. (e) “Male” means a person belonging, at conception, to the sex that produces the small reproductive cell. (f) “Gender ideology” replaces the biological category of sex with an ever-shifting concept of self-assessed gender identity, permitting the false claim that males can identify as and thus become women and vice versa, and requiring all institutions of society to regard this false claim as true. Gender ideology includes the idea that there is a vast spectrum of genders that are disconnected from one’s sex. Gender ideology is internally inconsistent, in that it diminishes sex as an identifiable or useful category but nevertheless maintains that it is possible for a person to be born in the wrong sexed body. (g) “Gender identity” reflects a fully internal and subjective sense of self, disconnected from biological reality and sex and existing on an infinite continuum, that does not provide a meaningful basis for identification and cannot be recognized as a replacement for sex. Sec. 3. Recognizing Women Are Biologically Distinct From Men. (a) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall provide to the U.S. Government, external partners, and the public clear guidance expanding on the sex-based definitions set forth in this order. (b) Each agency and all Federal employees shall enforce laws governing sex-based rights, protections, opportunities, and accommodations to protect men and women as biologically distinct sexes. Each agency should therefore give the terms “sex”, “male”, “female”, “men”, “women”, “boys” and “girls” the meanings set forth in section 2 of this order when interpreting or applying statutes, regulations, or guidance and in all other official agency business, documents, and communications. (c) When administering or enforcing sex-based distinctions, every agency and all Federal employees acting in an official capacity on behalf of their agency shall use the term “sex” and not “gender” in all applicable Federal policies and documents. (d) The Secretaries of State and Homeland Security, and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, shall implement changes to require that government-issued identification documents, including passports, visas, and Global Entry cards, accurately reflect the holder’s sex, as defined under section 2 of this order; and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall ensure that applicable personnel records accurately report Federal employees’ sex, as defined by section 2 of this order. (e) Agencies shall remove all statements, policies, regulations, forms, communications, or other internal and external messages that promote or otherwise inculcate gender ideology, and shall cease issuing such statements, policies, regulations, forms, communications or other messages. Agency forms that require an individual’s sex shall list male or female, and shall not request gender identity. Agencies shall take all necessary steps, as permitted by law, to end the Federal funding of gender ideology. (f) The prior Administration argued that the Supreme Court’s decision in Bostock v. Clayton County (2020), which addressed Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, requires gender identity-based access to single-sex spaces under, for example, Title IX of the Educational Amendments Act. This position is legally untenable and has harmed women. The Attorney General shall therefore immediately issue guidance to agencies to correct the misapplication of the Supreme Court’s decision in Bostock v. Clayton County (2020) to sex-based distinctions in agency activities. In addition, the Attorney General shall issue guidance and assist agencies in protecting sex-based distinctions, which are explicitly permitted under Constitutional and statutory precedent. (g) Federal funds shall not be used to promote gender ideology. Each agency shall assess grant conditions and grantee preferences and ensure grant funds do not promote gender ideology. Sec. 4. Privacy in Intimate Spaces. (a) The Attorney General and Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that males are not detained in women’s prisons or housed in women’s detention centers, including through amendment, as necessary, of Part 115.41 of title 28, Code of Federal Regulations and interpretation guidance regarding the Americans with Disabilities Act. (b) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall prepare and submit for notice and comment rulemaking a policy to rescind the final rule entitled “Equal Access in Accordance with an Individual’s Gender Identity in Community Planning and Development Programs” of September 21, 2016, 81 FR 64763, and shall submit for public comment a policy protecting women seeking single-sex rape shelters. (c) The Attorney General shall ensure that the Bureau of Prisons revises its policies concerning medical care to be consistent with this order, and shall ensure that no Federal funds are expended for any medical procedure, treatment, or drug for the purpose of conforming an inmate’s appearance to that of the opposite sex. (d) Agencies shall effectuate this policy by taking appropriate action to ensure that intimate spaces designated for women, girls, or females (or for men, boys, or males) are designated by sex and not identity. Sec. 5. Protecting Rights. The Attorney General shall issue guidance to ensure the freedom to express the binary nature of sex and the right to single-sex spaces in workplaces and federally funded entities covered by the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In accordance with that guidance, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Labor, the General Counsel and Chair of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and each other agency head with enforcement responsibilities under the Civil Rights Act shall prioritize investigations and litigation to enforce the rights and freedoms identified. Sec. 6. Bill Text. Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs shall present to the President proposed bill text to codify the definitions in this order. Sec. 7. Agency Implementation and Reporting. (a) Within 120 days of the date of this order, each agency head shall submit an update on implementation of this order to the President, through the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. That update shall address: (i) changes to agency documents, including regulations, guidance, forms, and communications, made to comply with this order; and (ii) agency-imposed requirements on federally funded entities, including contractors, to achieve the policy of this order. (b) The requirements of this order supersede conflicting provisions in any previous Executive Orders or Presidential Memoranda, including but not limited to Executive Orders 13988 of January 20, 2021, 14004 of January 25, 2021, 14020 and 14021 of March 8, 2021, and 14075 of June 15, 2022. These Executive Orders are hereby rescinded, and the White House Gender Policy Council established by Executive Order 14020 is dissolved. (c) Each agency head shall promptly rescind all guidance documents inconsistent with the requirements of this order or the Attorney General’s guidance issued pursuant to this order, or rescind such parts of such documents that are inconsistent in such manner. Such documents include, but are not limited to: (i) “The White House Toolkit on Transgender Equality”; (ii) the Department of Education’s guidance documents including: (A) “2024 Title IX Regulations: Pointers for Implementation” (July 2024); (B) “U.S. Department of Education Toolkit: Creating Inclusive and Nondiscriminatory School Environments for LGBTQI+ Students”; (C) “U.S. Department of Education Supporting LGBTQI+ Youth and Families in School” (June 21, 2023); (D) “Departamento de Educación de EE.UU. Apoyar a los jóvenes y familias LGBTQI+ en la escuela” (June 21, 2023); (E) “Supporting Intersex Students: A Resource for Students, Families, and Educators” (October 2021); (F) “Supporting Transgender Youth in School” (June 2021); (G) “Letter to Educators on Title IX’s 49th Anniversary” (June 23, 2021); (H) “Confronting Anti-LGBTQI+ Harassment in Schools: A Resource for Students and Families” (June 2021); (I) “Enforcement of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 With Respect to Discrimination Based on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity in Light of Bostock v. Clayton County” (June 22, 2021); (J) “Education in a Pandemic: The Disparate Impacts of COVID-19 on America’s Students” (June 9, 2021); and (K) “Back-to-School Message for Transgender Students from the U.S. Depts of Justice, Education, and HHS” (Aug. 17, 2021); (iii) the Attorney General’s Memorandum of March 26, 2021 entitled “Application of Bostock v. Clayton County to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972″; and (iv) the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission’s “Enforcement Guidance on Harassment in the Workplace” (April 29, 2024). Sec. 8. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. (d) If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
Over the past 4 years, the Biden Administration’s destructive policies inflicted an historic inflation crisis on the American people. The Biden Administration not only exploded Government spending, artificially and unsustainably stimulating demand, but it simultaneously made necessary goods and services scarce through a crushing regulatory burden and radical policies designed to weaken American production. Hardworking families today are overwhelmed by the cost of fuel, food, housing, automobiles, medical care, utilities, and insurance. In particular, the assault on plentiful and reliable American energy through unnecessary and illegal regulatory demands has driven up the cost of transportation and manufacturing. In addition, the unlawful regulatory mandate on companies to effectively eliminate many or most gas-powered vehicles has resulted in artificial price increases on those popular vehicles to subsidize electric vehicles disfavored by consumers. Moreover, many Americans are unable to purchase homes due to historically high prices, in part due to regulatory requirements that alone account for 25 percent of the cost of constructing a new home according to recent analysis. In sum, unprecedented regulatory oppression from the Biden Administration is estimated to have imposed almost $50,000 in costs on the average American household, whereas my first-term agenda reduced regulatory costs by almost $11,000 per household. It is critical to restore purchasing power to the American family and improve our quality of life. I hereby order the heads of all executive departments and agencies to deliver emergency price relief, consistent with applicable law, to the American people and increase the prosperity of the American worker. This shall include pursuing appropriate actions to: lower the cost of housing and expand housing supply; eliminate unnecessary administrative expenses and rent-seeking practices that increase healthcare costs; eliminate counterproductive requirements that raise the costs of home appliances; create employment opportunities for American workers, including drawing discouraged workers into the labor force; and eliminate harmful, coercive “climate” policies that increase the costs of food and fuel. Within 30 days of the date of this memorandum, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy shall report to me and every 30 days thereafter, on the status of the implementation of this memorandum. 
DESIGNATING CARTELS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS AS FOREIGN TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS AND SPECIALLY DESIGNATED GLOBAL TERRORISTS By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq., the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA),50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq. it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. This order creates a process by which certain international cartels (the Cartels) and other organizations will be designated as Foreign Terrorist Organizations, consistent with section 219 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1189), or Specially Designated Global Terrorists, consistent with IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702) and Executive Order 13224 of September 23, 2001 (Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions With Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism), as amended. (a) International cartels constitute a national-security threat beyond that posed by traditional organized crime, with activities encompassing: (i) convergence between themselves and a range of extra-hemispheric actors, from designated foreign-terror organizations to antagonistic foreign governments; (ii) complex adaptive systems, characteristic of entities engaged in insurgency and asymmetric warfare; and (iii) infiltration into foreign governments across the Western Hemisphere. The Cartels have engaged in a campaign of violence and terror throughout the Western Hemisphere that has not only destabilized countries with significant importance for our national interests but also flooded the United States with deadly drugs, violent criminals, and vicious gangs. The Cartels functionally control, through a campaign of assassination, terror, rape, and brute force nearly all illegal traffic across the southern border of the United States. In certain portions of Mexico, they function as quasi-governmental entities, controlling nearly all aspects of society. The Cartels’ activities threaten the safety of the American people, the security of the United States, and the stability of the international order in the Western Hemisphere. Their activities, proximity to, and incursions into the physical territory of the United States pose an unacceptable national security risk to the United States. (b) Other transnational organizations, such as Tren de Aragua (TdA) and La Mara Salvatrucha (MS-13) pose similar threats to the United States. Their campaigns of violence and terror in the United States and internationally are extraordinarily violent, vicious, and similarly threaten the stability of the international order in the Western Hemisphere. (c) The Cartels and other transnational organizations, such as TdA and MS-13, operate both within and outside the United States. They present an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. I hereby declare a national emergency, under IEEPA, to deal with those threats. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to ensure the total elimination of these organizations’ presence in the United States and their ability to threaten the territory, safety, and security of the United States through their extraterritorial command-and-control structures, thereby protecting the American people and the territorial integrity of the United States. Sec. 3. Implementation. (a) Within 14 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State shall take all appropriate action, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, to make a recommendation regarding the designation of any cartel or other organization described in section 1 of this order as a Foreign Terrorist Organization consistent with 8 U.S.C. 1189 and/or a Specially Designated Global Terrorist consistent with 50 U.S.C. 1702 and Executive Order 13224. (b) Within 14 days of the date of this order, the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to make operational preparations regarding the implementation of any decision I make to invoke the Alien Enemies Act, 50 U.S.C. 21 et seq., in relation to the existence of any qualifying invasion or predatory incursion against the territory of the United States by a qualifying actor, and to prepare such facilities as necessary to expedite the removal of those who may be designated under this order. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025. 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) (INA), it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Purpose. This order sets in motion a process by which Ansar Allah, also known as the Houthis, shall be considered for designation as a Foreign Terrorist Organization, consistent with section 219 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1189). Supported by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Quds Force (IRGC-QF), which arms and trains terrorist organizations worldwide, the Houthis have fired at U.S. Navy warships dozens of times since 2023, endangering American men and women in uniform. Since seizing most Yemeni population centers by force from the legitimate Yemeni government in 2014-2015، the Houthis have launched numerous attacks on civilian infrastructure, including multiple attacks on civilian airports in Saudi Arabia, the deadly January 2022 attacks on the United Arab Emirates, and more than 300 projectiles fired at Israel since October 2023. The Houthis have also attacked commercial vessels transiting Bab al-Mandeb more than 100 times, killing at least four civilian sailors and forcing some Red Sea maritime commercial traffic to reroute, which has contributed to global inflation. The Houthis’ activities threaten the security of American civilians and personnel in the Middle East, the safety of our closest regional partners, and the stability of global maritime trade. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to cooperate with its regional partners to eliminate Ansar Allah’s capabilities and operations, deprive it of resources, and thereby end its attacks on U.S. personnel and civilians, U.S. partners, and maritime shipping in the Red Sea. Sec. 3. Implementation. (a) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State shall, after consultation with the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of the Treasury, submit a report to the President, through the National Security Council, concerning the designation of Ansar Allah as a foreign terrorist organization consistent with 8 U.S.C. 1189. (b) Within 15 days after submitting the report required under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of State shall take all appropriate action, consistent with 8 U.S.C. 1189, with regards to a designation of Ansar Allah as a terrorist organization. (d) Following any designation of Ansar Allah as a foreign terrorist organization under 8 U.S.C. 1189, the Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) shall jointly conduct a review of the United Nations partners, nongovernmental organizations, and contractors through which USAID works in Yemen, and identify any entities with a relationship with USAID that has: (i) made payments to members of, or governmental entities controlled by, Ansar Allah; or (ii) has criticized international efforts to counter Ansar Allah while failing to document Ansar Allah’s abuses sufficiently. (e) The Administrator of USAID shall take all appropriate action to terminate the projects, grants, or contracts identified under subsection (e) of this section as appropriate. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to and does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. DONALD J. TRUMP THE WHITE HOUSE, January 22, 2025
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and section 4117 of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose and Policy. It is the policy of the United States to treat taxpayer dollars responsibly and advance unifying priorities like a stronger and safer America. Accordingly, it is the policy of my Administration to eliminate, to the greatest extent permitted by law, executive departments and agencies and programs that do not directly benefit the American people or further our Nation’s interests. In particular, the Federal Executive Institute, which was created by the Administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson more than 50 years ago, is a Government program purportedly designed to provide leadership training to bureaucrats. But bureaucratic leadership over the past half-century has led to Federal policies that enlarge and entrench the Washington, D.C., managerial class, a development that has not benefited the American family. The Federal Executive Institute should therefore be eliminated to refocus Government on serving taxpayers, competence, and dedication to our Constitution, rather than serving the Federal bureaucracy. Sec. 2. Elimination of the Federal Executive Institute. (a) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall take all necessary steps to eliminate the Federal Executive Institute, in accordance with applicable law. (b) All prior Presidential or other executive branch documents establishing or requiring the existence of the Federal Executive Institute, including the Presidential Memorandum of May 9, 1968, regarding the Federal Executive Institute, and any applicable provisions of Executive Order 11348 of April 20, 1967 (Providing for the Further Training of Government Employees), are hereby revoked. Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 10, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Policy. For weeks, residents of the Los Angeles area have watched raging fires consume their homes, belongings, beloved pets, and childhood memories. Almost immediately, firefighters were unable to fight the blaze due to dry hydrants, empty reservoirs, and inadequate water infrastructure. Today, at least 28 people have lost their lives and thousands more have lost everything else, with some damage estimates calculating hundreds of billions of dollars in damage. This tragedy affects the entire Nation, so it is in the Nation’s interest to ensure that California has what it needs to prevent and fight these fires and others in the future. Therefore, it is the policy of the United States to provide Southern California with necessary water resources, notwithstanding actively harmful State or local policies. And it is the policy of the United States to assist Americans in disaster areas through responsive policies that more effectively empower them to rebuild and regain their livelihoods. Sec. 2. Overriding Disastrous California Policies. (a) The Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Secretary of Agriculture shall expeditiously take all measures, consistent with all applicable authorities, to ensure adequate water resources in Southern California. Each shall report to me within 15 days on all authorities, including emergency authorities, available to ensure, require, maintain, or use infrastructure necessary to fight and prevent massive wildfires in Southern California. (b) In particular, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce shall immediately take actions to override existing activities that unduly burden efforts to maximize water deliveries. The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce shall consider actions including those consistent with the “No Action Alternative” in the Final Environmental Impact Statement issued November 15, 2024, by the Bureau of Reclamation on Long-term Operation of the Central Valley Project and State Water Project. (c) The Secretary of the Interior, including through the Bureau of Reclamation, shall utilize his discretion to operate the CVP to deliver more water and produce additional hydropower, including by increasing storage and conveyance, and jointly operating federal and state facilities, to high-need communities, notwithstanding any contrary State or local laws. The Bureau of Reclamation shall take all available measures to ensure that State agencies — including the California Department of Water Resources — do not interfere with the Bureau of Reclamation’s operation of the project to maximize water delivery to high-need communities or otherwise, including but not limited to the issuance of a new Record of Decision maximizing water deliveries and consistent with the 2020 Record of Decision. (d) In accordance with section 6 of the Executive Order of January 20, 2025 (Declaring a National Energy Emergency), the Secretary of the Interior, through the Bureau of Reclamation, and in accordance with section 1536 of title 16 United States Code, shall expedite action related to any exemption under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq., for the Long-Term Operation of the CVP and the State Water Project for all applicable threatened and endangered species. (e) The Secretary of the Interior shall promptly review, revise, or rescind any regulations or procedures specific to implementation of section 1536 of title 16 United States Code, as needed and consistent with applicable law, to conform with the plain meaning of the statute. (f) The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce shall identify all ongoing or potential major water-supply and storage projects within the State of California for which they have joint responsibility under the ESA or individual responsibilities under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. (g) For each such project identified under subsection (f), the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce shall each designate one federal official to coordinate each agency’s respective NEPA and ESA compliance responsibilities. Within 30 days from the date of this order, each designated official shall identify any regulatory hurdles that unduly burden each respective water project, identify any recent changes in state or Federal law that may impact such projects from a regulatory perspective (including Public Law 118-5), and shall develop a proposed plan, for review by the Secretaries, to appropriately suspend, revise, or rescind any regulations or procedures that unduly burden such projects and are not necessary to protect the public interest or otherwise comply with the law. In so doing, each designated federal official will coordinate and share all appropriate information that will enable improved efficiencies. For the purposes of this order, “unduly burden” means to unnecessarily obstruct, delay, curtail, impede or otherwise impose significant costs on the permitting, utilization, transmission, delivery, or supply of water resources and water infrastructure. Sec. 3. Ending the Subsidization of California’s Mismanagement. (a) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) shall review all Federal programs, projects, and activities for all relevant agencies that impact land management, water availability, water supply, water storage and delivery, water infrastructure, and disaster preparedness and response. (b) Within 30 days of the date of this order, to ensure that State and local jurisdictions promote sensible land management practices and reliable water supply for all Americans, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of Commerce shall jointly report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, regarding California State and local policies or practices inconsistent with sound disaster prevention and response. (c) The Director of OMB, in consultation with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, shall recommend appropriate action to the President, regarding: (i) any lack of compliance by California with the terms of existing Federal grants, contracts, or other financial assistance to States or localities; and (ii) beneficial additional terms that may be added with respect to any future Federal programs, projects, or activities to ensure sound disaster prevention and response. Sec. 4. Additional Actions to Help Los Angeles Families. (a) Housing Displaced Families. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Secretary of Homeland Security, through the Administrator of FEMA, shall expeditiously provide an Integrated Federal Housing Strategy and Implementation Plan to the Director of OMB and the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs that expedites options for housing relief to survivors displaced by wildfires in California. (b) Expediting Waste Removal. Within 5 days from the date of this order, to accelerate the rebuilding of areas devastated by the recent Los Angeles wildfires, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, through the Administrator of FEMA, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall develop and execute a plan to expedite the bulk removal of contaminated and general debris. (c) Effectively Using Grants to Improve Fire Preparedness. The Secretary of Homeland Security, through the Administrator of FEMA, shall immediately implement a plan to enable the timely and appropriate use of Federal preparedness grants for the City of Los Angeles. As of the date of this order, the city has yet to use the majority of its $213 million allotment that has accrued since fiscal year 2021. These Federal preparedness grants shall not be used to support illegal aliens. The Attorney General, in coordination with the FEMA Administrator, shall investigate the misuse of these grants by the City of Los Angeles and take appropriate action to address such misuse. Sec. 5. Additional Actions to Help North Carolina Families. (a) Clearing Roads. To accelerate rebuilding and community recovery, the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Administrator of FEMA, and the Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall immediately take all necessary and appropriate measures, including through direct assistance, loans, and other available means, to expedite roadway clearance or rebuilding, including the section of Interstate 40 in North Carolina that remains closed, and the repair or rebuilding of roads and bridges on private property in areas of North Carolina affected by Hurricane Helene. (b) Housing Displaced Families. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Secretary of Homeland Security, through the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, shall immediately provide an Integrated Federal Housing Strategy and Implementation Plan to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs that expedites options for housing relief to survivors displaced by Hurricane Helene. Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 24, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:Section 1. Purpose. Longstanding Federal civil-rights laws protect individual Americans from discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. These civil-rights protections serve as a bedrock supporting equality of opportunity for all Americans. As President, I have a solemn duty to ensure that these laws are enforced for the benefit of all Americans. Yet today, roughly 60 years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, critical and influential institutions of American society, including the Federal Government, major corporations, financial institutions, the medical industry, large commercial airlines, law enforcement agencies, and institutions of higher education have adopted and actively use dangerous, demeaning, and immoral race- and sex-based preferences under the guise of so-called “diversity, equity, and inclusion” (DEI) or “diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility” (DEIA) that can violate the civil-rights laws of this Nation.Illegal DEI and DEIA policies not only violate the text and spirit of our longstanding Federal civil-rights laws, they also undermine our national unity, as they deny, discredit, and undermine the traditional American values of hard work, excellence, and individual achievement in favor of an unlawful, corrosive, and pernicious identity-based spoils system. Hardworking Americans who deserve a shot at the American Dream should not be stigmatized, demeaned, or shut out of opportunities because of their race or sex.These illegal DEI and DEIA policies also threaten the safety of American men, women, and children across the Nation by diminishing the importance of individual merit, aptitude, hard work, and determination when selecting people for jobs and services in key sectors of American society, including all levels of government, and the medical, aviation, and law-enforcement communities. Yet in case after tragic case, the American people have witnessed first-hand the disastrous consequences of illegal, pernicious discrimination that has prioritized how people were born instead of what they were capable of doing.The Federal Government is charged with enforcing our civil-rights laws. The purpose of this order is to ensure that it does so by ending illegal preferences and discrimination.Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to protect the civil rights of all Americans and to promote individual initiative, excellence, and hard work. I therefore order all executive departments and agencies (agencies) to terminate all discriminatory and illegal preferences, mandates, policies, programs, activities, guidance, regulations, enforcement actions, consent orders, and requirements. I further order all agencies to enforce our longstanding civil-rights laws and to combat illegal private-sector DEI preferences, mandates, policies, programs, and activities.Sec. 3. Terminating Illegal Discrimination in the Federal Government. (a) The following executive actions are hereby revoked:(i) Executive Order 12898 of February 11, 1994 (Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations);(ii) Executive Order 13583 of August 18, 2011 (Establishing a Coordinated Government-wide Initiative to Promote Diversity and Inclusion in the Federal Workforce);(iii) Executive Order 13672 of July 21, 2014 (Further Amendments to Executive Order 11478, Equal Employment Opportunity in the Federal Government, and Executive Order 11246, Equal Employment Opportunity); and(iv) The Presidential Memorandum of October 5, 2016 (Promoting Diversity and Inclusion in the National Security Workforce).(b) The Federal contracting process shall be streamlined to enhance speed and efficiency, reduce costs, and require Federal contractors and subcontractors to comply with our civil-rights laws. Accordingly:(i) Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965 (Equal Employment Opportunity), is hereby revoked. For 90 days from the date of this order, Federal contractors may continue to comply with the regulatory scheme in effect on January 20, 2025.(ii) The Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs within the Department of Labor shall immediately cease:(A) Promoting “diversity”;(B) Holding Federal contractors and subcontractors responsible for taking “affirmative action”; and(C) Allowing or encouraging Federal contractors and subcontractors to engage in workforce balancing based on race, color, sex, sexual preference, religion, or national origin.(iii) In accordance with Executive Order 13279 of December 12, 2002 (Equal Protection of the Laws for Faith-Based and Community Organizations), the employment, procurement, and contracting practices of Federal contractors and subcontractors shall not consider race, color, sex, sexual preference, religion, or national origin in ways that violate the Nation’s civil rights laws.(iv) The head of each agency shall include in every contract or grant award:(A) A term requiring the contractual counterparty or grant recipient to agree that its compliance in all respects with all applicable Federal anti-discrimination laws is material to the government’s payment decisions for purposes of section 3729(b)(4) of title 31, United States Code; and(B) A term requiring such counterparty or recipient to certify that it does not operate any programs promoting DEI that violate any applicable Federal anti-discrimination laws.(c) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), with the assistance of the Attorney General as requested, shall:(i) Review and revise, as appropriate, all Government-wide processes, directives, and guidance;(ii) Excise references to DEI and DEIA principles, under whatever name they may appear, from Federal acquisition, contracting, grants, and financial assistance procedures to streamline those procedures, improve speed and efficiency, lower costs, and comply with civil-rights laws; and(iii) Terminate all “diversity,” “equity,” “equitable decision-making,” “equitable deployment of financial and technical assistance,” “advancing equity,” and like mandates, requirements, programs, or activities, as appropriate.Sec. 4. Encouraging the Private Sector to End Illegal DEI Discrimination and Preferences. (a) The heads of all agencies, with the assistance of the Attorney General, shall take all appropriate action with respect to the operations of their agencies to advance in the private sector the policy of individual initiative, excellence, and hard work identified in section 2 of this order.(b) To further inform and advise me so that my Administration may formulate appropriate and effective civil-rights policy, the Attorney General, within 120 days of this order, in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies and in coordination with the Director of OMB, shall submit a report to the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy containing recommendations for enforcing Federal civil-rights laws and taking other appropriate measures to encourage the private sector to end illegal discrimination and preferences, including DEI. The report shall contain a proposed strategic enforcement plan identifying:(i) Key sectors of concern within each agency’s jurisdiction;(ii) The most egregious and discriminatory DEI practitioners in each sector of concern;(iii) A plan of specific steps or measures to deter DEI programs or principles (whether specifically denominated “DEI” or otherwise) that constitute illegal discrimination or preferences. As a part of this plan, each agency shall identify up to nine potential civil compliance investigations of publicly traded corporations, large non-profit corporations or associations, foundations with assets of 500 million dollars or more, State and local bar and medical associations, and institutions of higher education with endowments over 1 billion dollars;(iv) Other strategies to encourage the private sector to end illegal DEI discrimination and preferences and comply with all Federal civil-rights laws;(v) Litigation that would be potentially appropriate for Federal lawsuits, intervention, or statements of interest; and(vi) Potential regulatory action and sub-regulatory guidance.Sec. 5. Other Actions. Within 120 days of this order, the Attorney General and the Secretary of Education shall jointly issue guidance to all State and local educational agencies that receive Federal funds, as well as all institutions of higher education that receive Federal grants or participate in the Federal student loan assistance program under Title IV of the Higher Education Act, 20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq., regarding the measures and practices required to comply with Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President and Fellows of Harvard College, 600 U.S. 181 (2023).Sec. 6. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.Sec. 7. Scope. (a) This order does not apply to lawful Federal or private-sector employment and contracting preferences for veterans of the U.S. armed forces or persons protected by the Randolph-Sheppard Act, 20 U.S.C. 107 et seq.(b) This order does not prevent State or local governments, Federal contractors, or Federally-funded State and local educational agencies or institutions of higher education from engaging in First Amendment-protected speech.(c) This order does not prohibit persons teaching at a Federally funded institution of higher education as part of a larger course of academic instruction from advocating for, endorsing, or promoting the unlawful employment or contracting practices prohibited by this order.Sec. 8. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to and does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 21, 2025. 
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Policy. An irrational campaign against plastic straws has resulted in major cities, States, and businesses banning the use or automatic inclusion of plastic straws with beverages. Plastic straws are often replaced by paper straws, which are nonfunctional, use chemicals that may carry risks to human health, are more expensive to produce than plastic straws, and often force users to use multiple straws. Additionally, paper straws sometimes come individually wrapped in plastic, undermining the environmental argument for their use.It is therefore the policy of the United States to end the use of paper straws. Sec. 2. Purchases of Paper Straws by the Federal Government. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall take all appropriate action to eliminate the procurement of paper straws and otherwise ensure that paper straws are no longer provided within agency buildings.(b) Agencies shall take appropriate action to eliminate policies designed to disfavor plastic straws issued to further Executive Order 14057 of December 8, 2021 (Catalyzing Clean Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal Sustainability), which I revoked on January 20, 2025.(c) Within 45 days of the date of this order, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, in coordination with relevant agencies, shall issue a National Strategy to End the Use of Paper Straws. This strategy shall address:(i) The elimination of all policies within the executive branch designed to disfavor plastic straws;(ii) Contract policies and terms with entities, including States, that ban or penalize plastic straw purchase or use; and(iii) All other available tools to achieve the policy of this order nationwide. Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 10, 2025. 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose and Policy. The Biden Administration forced illegal and immoral discrimination programs, going by the name “diversity, equity, and inclusion” (DEI), into virtually all aspects of the Federal Government, in areas ranging from airline safety to the military. This was a concerted effort stemming from President Biden’s first day in office, when he issued Executive Order 13985, “Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government.” Pursuant to Executive Order 13985 and follow-on orders, nearly every Federal agency and entity submitted “Equity Action Plans” to detail the ways that they have furthered DEIs infiltration of the Federal Government. The public release of these plans demonstrated immense public waste and shameful discrimination. That ends today. Americans deserve a government committed to serving every person with equal dignity and respect, and to expending precious taxpayer resources only on making America great. Sec. 2. Implementation. (a) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), assisted by the Attorney General and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), shall coordinate the termination of all discriminatory programs, including illegal DEI and “diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility” (DEIA) mandates, policies, programs, preferences, and activities in the Federal Government, under whatever name they appear. To carry out this directive, the Director of OPM, with the assistance of the Attorney General as requested, shall review and revise, as appropriate, all existing Federal employment practices, union contracts, and training policies or programs to comply with this order. Federal employment practices, including Federal employee performance reviews, shall reward individual initiative, skills, performance, and hard work and shall not under any circumstances consider DEI or DEIA factors, goals, policies, mandates, or requirements. (b) Each agency, department, or commission head, in consultation with the Attorney General, the Director of OMB, and the Director of OPM, as appropriate, shall take the following actions within sixty days of this order: (i) terminate, to the maximum extent allowed by law, all DEI, DEIA, and “environmental justice” offices and positions (including but not limited to “Chief Diversity Officer” positions); all “equity action plans,” “equity” actions, initiatives, or programs, “equity-related” grants or contracts; and all DEI or DEIA performance requirements for employees, contractors, or grantees. (ii) provide the Director of the OMB with a list of all: (A) agency or department DEI, DEIA, or “environmental justice” positions, committees, programs, services, activities, budgets, and expenditures in existence on November 4, 2024, and an assessment of whether these positions, committees, programs, services, activities, budgets, and expenditures have been misleadingly relabeled in an attempt to preserve their pre-November 4, 2024 function; (B) Federal contractors who have provided DEI training or DEI training materials to agency or department employees; and (C) Federal grantees who received Federal funding to provide or advance DEI, DEIA, or “environmental justice” programs, services, or activities since January 20, 2021. (iii) direct the deputy agency or department head to: (A) assess the operational impact (e.g., the number of new DEI hires) and cost of the prior administration’s DEI, DEIA, and “environmental justice” programs and policies; and (B) recommend actions, such as Congressional notifications under 28 U.S.C. 530D, to align agency or department programs, activities, policies, regulations, guidance, employment practices, enforcement activities, contracts (including set-asides), grants, consent orders, and litigating positions with the policy of equal dignity and respect identified in section 1 of this order. The agency or department head and the Director of OMB shall jointly ensure that the deputy agency or department head has the authority and resources needed to carry out this directive. (c) To inform and advise the President, so that he may formulate appropriate and effective civil-rights policies for the Executive Branch, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall convene a monthly meeting attended by the Director of OMB, the Director of OPM, and each deputy agency or department head to: (i) hear reports on the prevalence and the economic and social costs of DEI, DEIA, and “environmental justice” in agency or department programs, activities, policies, regulations, guidance, employment practices, enforcement activities, contracts (including set-asides), grants, consent orders, and litigating positions; (ii) discuss any barriers to measures to comply with this order; and (iii) monitor and track agency and department progress and identify potential areas for additional Presidential or legislative action to advance the policy of equal dignity and respect. Sec. 3. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose and Policy. Parents trust America’s schools to provide their children with a rigorous education and to instill a patriotic admiration for our incredible Nation and the values for which we stand. In recent years, however, parents have witnessed schools indoctrinate their children in radical, anti-American ideologies while deliberately blocking parental oversight. Such an environment operates as an echo chamber, in which students are forced to accept these ideologies without question or critical examination. In many cases, innocent children are compelled to adopt identities as either victims or oppressors solely based on their skin color and other immutable characteristics. In other instances, young men and women are made to question whether they were born in the wrong body and whether to view their parents and their reality as enemies to be blamed. These practices not only erode critical thinking but also sow division, confusion, and distrust, which undermine the very foundations of personal identity and family unity.Imprinting anti-American, subversive, harmful, and false ideologies on our Nation’s children not only violates longstanding anti-discrimination civil rights law in many cases, but usurps basic parental authority. For example, steering students toward surgical and chemical mutilation without parental consent or involvement or allowing males access to private spaces designated for females may contravene Federal laws that protect parental rights, including the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and the Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment (PPRA), and sex-based equality and opportunity, including Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (Title IX). Similarly, demanding acquiescence to “White Privilege” or “unconscious bias,” actually promotes racial discrimination and undermines national unity.My Administration will enforce the law to ensure that recipients of Federal funds providing K-12 education comply with all applicable laws prohibiting discrimination in various contexts and protecting parental rights, including Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title VI), 42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.; Title IX, 20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.; FERPA, 20 U.S.C. 1232g; and the PPRA, 20 U.S.C. 1232h.Sec. 2. Definitions. As used herein:(a) The definitions in the Executive Order “Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government” (January 20, 2025) shall apply to this order.(b) “Discriminatory equity ideology” means an ideology that treats individuals as members of preferred or disfavored groups, rather than as individuals, and minimizes agency, merit, and capability in favor of immoral generalizations, including that: (i) Members of one race, color, sex, or national origin are morally or inherently superior to members of another race, color, sex, or national origin; (ii) An individual, by virtue of the individual’s race, color, sex, or national origin, is inherently racist, sexist, or oppressive, whether consciously or unconsciously; (iii) An individual’s moral character or status as privileged, oppressing, or oppressed is primarily determined by the individual’s race, color, sex, or national origin; (iv) Members of one race, color, sex, or national origin cannot and should not attempt to treat others without respect to their race, color, sex, or national origin; (v) An individual, by virtue of the individual’s race, color, sex, or national origin, bears responsibility for, should feel guilt, anguish, or other forms of psychological distress because of, should be discriminated against, blamed, or stereotyped for, or should receive adverse treatment because of actions committed in the past by other members of the same race, color, sex, or national origin, in which the individual played no part; (vi) An individual, by virtue of the individual’s race, color, sex, or national origin, should be discriminated against or receive adverse treatment to achieve diversity, equity, or inclusion; (vii) Virtues such as merit, excellence, hard work, fairness, neutrality, objectivity, and racial colorblindness are racist or sexist or were created by members of a particular race, color, sex, or national origin to oppress members of another race, color, sex, or national origin; or(viii) the United States is fundamentally racist, sexist, or otherwise discriminatory.(c) “Educational service agency” (ESA) has the meaning given in 20 U.S.C. 1401(5), and the terms “elementary school,” “local educational agency” (LEA), “secondary school,” and “state educational agency” (SEA) have the meanings given in 34 C.F.R. 77.1(c).(d) “Patriotic education” means a presentation of the history of America grounded in: (i) an accurate, honest, unifying, inspiring, and ennobling characterization of America’s founding and foundational principles; (ii) a clear examination of how the United States has admirably grown closer to its noble principles throughout its history; (iii) the concept that commitment to America’s aspirations is beneficial and justified; and(iv) the concept that celebration of America’s greatness and history is proper.(e) “Social transition” means the process of adopting a “gender identity” or “gender marker” that differs from a person’s sex. This process can include psychological or psychiatric counseling or treatment by a school counselor or other provider; modifying a person’s name (e.g., “Jane” to “James”) or pronouns (e.g., “him” to “her”); calling a child “nonbinary”; use of intimate facilities and accommodations such as bathrooms or locker rooms specifically designated for persons of the opposite sex; and participating in school athletic competitions or other extracurricular activities specifically designated for persons of the opposite sex. “Social transition” does not include chemical or surgical mutilation.Sec. 3. Ending Indoctrination Strategy. (a) Within 90 days of the date of this order, to advise the President in formulating future policy, the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Attorney General, shall provide an Ending Indoctrination Strategy to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, containing recommendations and a plan for:(i) eliminating Federal funding or support for illegal and discriminatory treatment and indoctrination in K-12 schools, including based on gender ideology and discriminatory equity ideology; and(ii) protecting parental rights, pursuant to FERPA, 20 U.S.C. 1232g, and the PPRA, 20 U.S.C. 1232h, with respect to any K-12 policies or conduct implicated by the purpose and policy of this order.(b) The Ending Indoctrination Strategy submitted under subsection (a) of this section shall contain a summary and analysis of the following:(i) All Federal funding sources and streams, including grants or contracts, that directly or indirectly support or subsidize the instruction, advancement, or promotion of gender ideology or discriminatory equity ideology:(A) in K-12 curriculum, instruction, programs, or activities; or (B) in K-12 teacher education, certification, licensing, employment, or training; (ii) Each agency’s process to prevent or rescind Federal funds, to the maximum extent consistent with applicable law, from being used by an ESA, SEA, LEA, elementary school, or secondary school to directly or indirectly support or subsidize the instruction, advancement, or promotion of gender ideology or discriminatory equity ideology in: (A) K-12 curriculum, instruction, programs, or activities; or (B) K-12 teacher certification, licensing, employment, or training; (iii) Each agency’s process to prevent or rescind Federal funds, to the maximum extent consistent with applicable law, from being used by an ESA, SEA, LEA, elementary school, or secondary school to directly or indirectly support or subsidize the social transition of a minor student, including through school staff or teachers or through deliberately concealing the minor’s social transition from the minor’s parents.(iv) Each agency’s process to prevent or rescind Federal funds, to the maximum extent consistent with applicable law, from being used by an ESA, SEA, LEA, elementary school, or secondary school to directly or indirectly support or subsidize:(A) interference with a parent’s Federal statutory right to information regarding school curriculum, records, physical examinations, surveys, and other matters under the PPRA or FERPA; or (B) a violation of Title VI or Title IX; and(v) A summary and analysis of all relevant agency enforcement tools to advance the policies of this order. (c) The Attorney General shall coordinate with State attorneys general and local district attorneys in their efforts to enforce the law and file appropriate actions against K-12 teachers and school officials who violate the law by:(i) sexually exploiting minors; (ii) unlawfully practicing medicine by offering diagnoses and treatment without the requisite license; or(iii) otherwise unlawfully facilitating the social transition of a minor student.(d) The Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall regularly convene the heads of the agencies tasked with submitting the Ending Indoctrination Strategy under subsection (a) of this section to confer regarding their findings, areas for additional investigation, the modification or implementation of their respective recommendations, and such other policy initiatives or matters as the President may direct. Sec. 4. Reestablishing the President’s Advisory 1776 Commission and Promoting Patriotic Education. (a) The President’s Advisory 1776 Commission (“1776 Commission”), which was created by Executive Order 13958 of November 2, 2020, to promote patriotic education, but was terminated by President Biden in Executive Order 13985 of January 20, 2021, is hereby reestablished. The purpose of the 1776 Commission is to promote patriotic education and advance the purposes stated in section 1 of Executive Order 13958, as well as to advise and promote the work of the White House Task Force on Celebrating America’s 250th Birthday (“Task Force 250”) and the United States Semiquincentennial Commission in their efforts to provide a grand celebration worthy of the momentous occasion of the 250th anniversary of American Independence on July 4, 2026.(b) Within 120 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Education shall establish the 1776 Commission in the Department of Education.(c) The 1776 Commission shall be composed of not more than 20 members, who shall be appointed by the President for a term of 2 years. The 1776 Commission shall be made up of individuals from outside the Federal Government with relevant experience or subject-matter expertise. (d) The 1776 Commission shall have a Chair or Co-Chairs, at the President’s discretion, and a Vice Chair, who shall be designated by the President from among the Commission’s members. An Executive Director, designated by the Secretary of Education in consultation with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, shall coordinate the work of the 1776 Commission. The Chair (or Co-Chairs) and Vice Chair shall work with the Executive Director to convene regular meetings of the 1776 Commission, determine its agenda, and direct its work, consistent with this order.(e) The 1776 Commission shall:(i) facilitate the development and implementation of a “Presidential 1776 Award” to recognize student knowledge of the American founding, including knowledge about the Founders, the Declaration of Independence, the Constitutional Convention, and the great soldiers and battles of the American Revolutionary War;(ii) in coordination with the White House Office of Public Liaison, coordinate bi-weekly lectures regarding the 250th anniversary of American Independence that are grounded in patriotic education principles, which shall be broadcast to the Nation throughout calendar year 2026; (iii) upon request, advise executive departments and agencies regarding their efforts to ensure patriotic education is appropriately provided to the public at national parks, battlefields, monuments, museums, installations, landmarks, cemeteries, and other places important to the American founding and American history, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law; (iv) upon request, offer advice and recommendations to, and support the work of Task Force 250 and the United States Semiquincentennial Commission regarding their plans to celebrate the 250th anniversary of American Independence; and(v) facilitate, advise upon, and promote private and civic activities nationwide to increase public knowledge of and support patriotic education surrounding the 250th anniversary of American Independence, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.(f) The Department of Education shall provide funding and administrative support for the 1776 Commission, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(g) Members of the 1776 Commission shall serve without compensation but, as approved by the Department of Education, shall be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707).(h) Insofar as chapter 10 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the Federal Advisory Committee Act), may apply to the 1776 Commission, any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the Congress, shall be performed by the Secretary of Education, in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Administrator of General Services.(i) The 1776 Commission shall terminate 2 years from the date of this order, unless extended by the President. Sec. 5. Additional Patriotic Education Measures. (a) All relevant agencies shall monitor compliance with section 111(b) of title I of Division J of Public Law 108-447, which provides that “[e]ach educational institution that receives Federal funds for a fiscal year shall hold an educational program on the United States Constitution on September 17 of such year for the students served by the educational institution,” including by verifying compliance with each educational institution that receives Federal funds. All relevant agencies shall take action, as appropriate, to enhance compliance with that law. (b) All relevant agencies shall prioritize Federal resources, consistent with applicable law, to promote patriotic education, including through the following programs:(i) the Department of Education’s American History and Civics Academies and American History and Civics Education-National Activities programs; (ii) the Department of Defense’s National Defense Education Program and Pilot Program on Enhanced Civics Education; and(iii) the Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs and Fulbright, U.S. Speaker, and International Visitor Leadership programs, as well as the American Spaces network.Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. The plain text of Federal law, including the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-193) (PRWORA), generally prohibits illegal aliens from obtaining most taxpayer-funded benefits. Title IV of the PRWORA states that it is national policy that “aliens within the Nation’s borders not depend on public resources to meet their needs,” and that “[i]t is a compelling government interest to remove the incentive for illegal immigration provided by the availability of public benefits.” But in the decades since the passage of the PRWORA, numerous administrations have acted to undermine the principles and limitations directed by the Congress through that law. Over the last 4 years, in particular, the prior administration repeatedly undercut the goals of that law, resulting in the improper expenditure of significant taxpayer resources. My Administration will uphold the rule of law, defend against the waste of hard-earned taxpayer resources, and protect benefits for American citizens in need, including individuals with disabilities and veterans. Sec. 2. Preserving Federal Public Benefits. (a) To prevent taxpayer resources from acting as a magnet and fueling illegal immigration to the United States, and to ensure, to the maximum extent permitted by law, that no taxpayer-funded benefits go to unqualified aliens, the head of each executive department or agency (agency) shall: (i) identify all federally funded programs administered by the agency that currently permit illegal aliens to obtain any cash or non-cash public benefit, and, consistent with applicable law, take all appropriate actions to align such programs with the purposes of this order and the requirements of applicable Federal law, including the PRWORA; (ii) ensure, consistent with applicable law, that Federal payments to States and localities do not, by design or effect, facilitate the subsidization or promotion of illegal immigration, or abet so-called “sanctuary” policies that seek to shield illegal aliens from deportation; and (iii) enhance eligibility verification systems, to the maximum extent possible, to ensure that taxpayer-funded benefits exclude any ineligible alien who entered the United States illegally or is otherwise unlawfully present in the United States. (b) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the Administrator of the United States DOGE Service, in coordination with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, shall further: (i) identify all other sources of Federal funding for illegal aliens; and (ii) recommend additional agency actions to align Federal spending with the purposes of this order, and, where relevant, enhance eligibility verification systems. (c) Agencies shall refer any improper receipt or use of Federal benefits to the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security for appropriate action. Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.THE WHITE HOUSE, February 19, 2025. 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Purpose. The American people have witnessed the previous administration engage in a systematic campaign against its perceived political opponents, weaponizing the legal force of numerous Federal law enforcement agencies and the Intelligence Community against those perceived political opponents in the form of investigations, prosecutions, civil enforcement actions, and other related actions. These actions appear oriented more toward inflicting political pain than toward pursuing actual justice or legitimate governmental objectives. Many of these activities appear to be inconsistent with the Constitution and/or the laws of the United States, including those activities directed at parents protesting at school board meetings, Americans who spoke out against the previous administration’s actions, and other Americans who were simply exercising constitutionally protected rights. The prior administration and allies throughout the country engaged in an unprecedented, third-world weaponization of prosecutorial power to upend the democratic process. It targeted individuals who voiced opposition to the prior administration’s policies with numerous Federal investigations and politically motivated funding revocations, which cost Americans access to needed services. The Department of Justice even jailed an individual for posting a political meme. And while the Department of Justice has ruthlessly prosecuted more than 1,500 individuals associated with January 6, and simultaneously dropped nearly all cases against BLM rioters. Therefore, this order sets forth a process to ensure accountability for the previous administration’s weaponization of the Federal Government against the American people. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to identify and take appropriate action to correct past misconduct by the Federal Government related to the weaponization of law enforcement and the weaponization of the Intelligence Community. Sec. 3. Ending the Weaponization of the Federal Government. (a) The Attorney General, in consultation with the heads of all departments and agencies of the United States, shall take appropriate action to review the activities of all departments and agencies exercising civil or criminal enforcement authority of the United States, including, but not limited to, the Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Federal Trade Commission, over the last 4 years and identify any instances where a department’s or agency’s conduct appears to have been contrary to the purposes and policies of this order, and prepare a report to be submitted to the President, through the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy and the Counsel to the President, with recommendations for appropriate remedial actions to be taken to fulfill the purposes and policies of this order. (b) The Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the heads of the appropriate departments and agencies within the Intelligence Community, shall take all appropriate action to review the activities of the Intelligence Community over the last 4 years and identify any instances where the Intelligence Community’s conduct appears to have been contrary to the purposes and policies of this order, and prepare a report to be submitted to the President, through the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy and the National Security Advisor, with recommendations for appropriate remedial actions to be taken to fulfill the purposes and policies of this order. The term “Intelligence Community” has the meaning given the term in section 3003 of title 50, United States Code. (c) In furtherance of these policies, departments and agencies are directed to comply with applicable document-retention policies and legal obligations. Instances of noncompliance with document-retention policies or legal obligations will be referred to the Attorney General. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025. 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose and Policy. For nearly five decades, the Congress has annually enacted the Hyde Amendment and similar laws that prevent Federal funding of elective abortion, reflecting a longstanding consensus that American taxpayers should not be forced to pay for that practice. However, the previous administration disregarded this established, commonsense policy by embedding forced taxpayer funding of elective abortions in a wide variety of Federal programs.It is the policy of the United States, consistent with the Hyde Amendment, to end the forced use of Federal taxpayer dollars to fund or promote elective abortion. Sec. 2. Revocation of Orders and Actions. The following Executive Orders are hereby revoked:(a) Executive Order 14076 of July 8, 2022; and(b) Executive Order 14079 of August 3, 2022. Sec. 3. Implementation. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall promulgate guidance to the heads of executive departments and agencies related to implementation of sections 1 and 2 of this order. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 24, 2025.
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Policy and Purpose. The Constitution vests all executive power in the President and charges him with faithfully executing the laws. Since it would be impossible for the President to single-handedly perform all the executive business of the Federal Government, the Constitution also provides for subordinate officers to assist the President in his executive duties. In the exercise of their often-considerable authority, these executive branch officials remain subject to the President’s ongoing supervision and control. The President in turn is regularly elected by and accountable to the American people. This is one of the structural safeguards, along with the separation of powers between the executive and legislative branches, regular elections for the Congress, and an independent judiciary whose judges are appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, by which the Framers created a Government accountable to the American people. However, previous administrations have allowed so-called “independent regulatory agencies” to operate with minimal Presidential supervision. These regulatory agencies currently exercise substantial executive authority without sufficient accountability to the President, and through him, to the American people. Moreover, these regulatory agencies have been permitted to promulgate significant regulations without review by the President. These practices undermine such regulatory agencies’ accountability to the American people and prevent a unified and coherent execution of Federal law. For the Federal Government to be truly accountable to the American people, officials who wield vast executive power must be supervised and controlled by the people’s elected President. Therefore, in order to improve the administration of the executive branch and to increase regulatory officials’ accountability to the American people, it shall be the policy of the executive branch to ensure Presidential supervision and control of the entire executive branch. Moreover, all executive departments and agencies, including so-called independent agencies, shall submit for review all proposed and final significant regulatory actions to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) within the Executive Office of the President before publication in the Federal Register. Sec. 2. Definitions. For the purposes of this order: (a) The term “employees” shall have the meaning given that term in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code. (b) The term “independent regulatory agency” shall have the meaning given that term in section 3502(5) of title 44, United States Code. This order shall not apply to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or to the Federal Open Market Committee in its conduct of monetary policy. This order shall apply to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System only in connection with its conduct and authorities directly related to its supervision and regulation of financial institutions. (c) The term “independent regulatory agency chairman” shall mean, with regard to a multi-member independent regulatory agency, the chairman of such agency, and shall mean, with regard to a single-headed independent regulatory agency, such agency’s chairman, director, or other presiding officer. (d) The term “head” of an independent regulatory agency shall mean those appointed to supervise independent regulatory agencies and in whom the agencies’ authorities are generally vested, encompassing the chairman, director, or other presiding officer, and, as applicable, other members, commissioners, or similar such officials with responsibility for supervising such agencies. Sec. 3. OIRA Review of Agency Regulations. (a) Section 3(b) of Executive Order 12866 of September 30, 1993 (“Regulatory Planning and Review”), as amended, is hereby amended to read as follows: “(b) “Agency,” unless otherwise indicated, means any authority of the United States that is an “agency” under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), and shall also include the Federal Election Commission. This order shall not apply to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or to the Federal Open Market Committee in its conduct of monetary policy. This order shall apply to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System only in connection with its conduct and authorities directly related to its supervision and regulation of financial institutions.”. (b) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) shall provide guidance on implementation of this order to the heads of executive departments and agencies newly submitting regulatory actions under section 3(b) of Executive Order 12866. Agency submissions by independent regulatory agencies under such section shall commence within the earlier of 60 days from the date of this order, or completion of such implementation guidance. Sec. 4. Performance Standards and Management Objectives. The Director of OMB shall establish performance standards and management objectives for independent agency heads, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, and report periodically to the President on their performance and efficiency in attaining such standards and objectives. Sec. 5. Apportionments for Independent Regulatory Agencies. The Director of OMB shall, on an ongoing basis: (a) review independent regulatory agencies’ obligations for consistency with the President’s policies and priorities; and (b) consult with independent regulatory agency chairmen and adjust such agencies’ apportionments by activity, function, project, or object, as necessary and appropriate, to advance the President’s policies and priorities. Such adjustments to apportionments may prohibit independent regulatory agencies from expending appropriations on particular activities, functions, projects, or objects, so long as such restrictions are consistent with law. Sec. 6. Additional Consultation with the Executive Office of the President. (a) Subject to subsection (b), independent regulatory agency chairmen shall regularly consult with and coordinate policies and priorities with the directors of OMB, the White House Domestic Policy Council, and the White House National Economic Council. (b) The heads of independent regulatory agencies shall establish a position of White House Liaison in their respective agencies. Such position shall be in grade 15 of the General Schedule and shall be placed in Schedule C of the excepted service. (c) Independent regulatory agency chairmen shall submit agency strategic plans developed pursuant to the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993 to the Director of OMB for clearance prior to finalization. Sec. 7. Rules of Conduct Guiding Federal Employees’ Interpretation of the Law. The President and the Attorney General, subject to the President’s supervision and control, shall provide authoritative interpretations of law for the executive branch. The President and the Attorney General’s opinions on questions of law are controlling on all employees in the conduct of their official duties. No employee of the executive branch acting in their official capacity may advance an interpretation of the law as the position of the United States that contravenes the President or the Attorney General’s opinion on a matter of law, including but not limited to the issuance of regulations, guidance, and positions advanced in litigation, unless authorized to do so by the President or in writing by the Attorney General. Sec. 8. General Provisions. (a) If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. It is the policy of my Administration to focus the executive branch’s limited enforcement resources on regulations squarely authorized by constitutional Federal statutes, and to commence the deconstruction of the overbearing and burdensome administrative state. Ending Federal overreach and restoring the constitutional separation of powers is a priority of my Administration. Sec. 2. Rescinding Unlawful Regulations and Regulations That Undermine the National Interest. (a) Agency heads shall, in coordination with their DOGE Team Leads and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, initiate a process to review all regulations subject to their sole or joint jurisdiction for consistency with law and Administration policy. Within 60 days of the date of this order, agency heads shall, in consultation with the Attorney General as appropriate, identify the following classes of regulations:(i) unconstitutional regulations and regulations that raise serious constitutional difficulties, such as exceeding the scope of the power vested in the Federal Government by the Constitution;(ii) regulations that are based on unlawful delegations of legislative power;(iii) regulations that are based on anything other than the best reading of the underlying statutory authority or prohibition;(iv) regulations that implicate matters of social, political, or economic significance that are not authorized by clear statutory authority;(v) regulations that impose significant costs upon private parties that are not outweighed by public benefits;(vi) regulations that harm the national interest by significantly and unjustifiably impeding technological innovation, infrastructure development, disaster response, inflation reduction, research and development, economic development, energy production, land use, and foreign policy objectives; and(vii) regulations that impose undue burdens on small business and impede private enterprise and entrepreneurship.(b) In conducting the review required by subsection (a) of this section, agencies shall prioritize review of those rules that satisfy the definition of “significant regulatory action” in Executive Order 12866 of September 30, 1993 (Regulatory Planning and Review), as amended.(c) Within 60 days of the date of this order, agency heads shall provide to the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) within the Office of Management and Budget a list of all regulations identified by class as listed in subsection (a) of this section.(d) The Administrator of OIRA shall consult with agency heads to develop a Unified Regulatory Agenda that seeks to rescind or modify these regulations, as appropriate. Sec. 3. Enforcement Discretion to Ensure Lawful Governance. (a) Subject to their paramount obligation to discharge their legal obligations, protect public safety, and advance the national interest, agencies shall preserve their limited enforcement resources by generally de-prioritizing actions to enforce regulations that are based on anything other than the best reading of a statute and de-prioritizing actions to enforce regulations that go beyond the powers vested in the Federal Government by the Constitution.(b) Agency heads shall determine whether ongoing enforcement of any regulations identified in their regulatory review is compliant with law and Administration policy. To preserve resources and ensure lawful enforcement, agency heads, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall, on a case-by-case basis and as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, then direct the termination of all such enforcement proceedings that do not comply with the Constitution, laws, or Administration policy. Sec. 4. Promulgation of New Regulations. Agencies shall continue to follow the processes set out in Executive Order 12866 for submitting regulations for review by OIRA. Additionally, agency heads shall consult with their DOGE Team Leads and the Administrator of OIRA on potential new regulations as soon as practicable. In evaluating potential new regulations, agency heads, DOGE Team Leads, and the Administrator of OIRA shall consider, in addition to the factors set out in Executive Order 12866, the factors set out in section 2(a) of this order. Sec. 5. Implementation. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall issue implementation guidance, as appropriate. Sec. 6. Definitions. (a) “Agency” has the meaning given to it in 44 U.S.C. 3502, except it does not include the Executive Office of the President or its components.(b) “Agency head” shall mean the highest-ranking official of an agency, such as the Secretary, Administrator, Chairman, or Director.(c) “DOGE Team Lead” shall mean the leader of the DOGE Team at each agency as described in Executive Order 14158 of January 20, 2025 (Establishing and Implementing the President’s “Department of Government Efficiency”).(d) “Enforcement action” means all attempts, civil or criminal, by any agency to deprive a private party of life, liberty, or property, or in any way affect a private party’s rights or obligations, regardless of the label the agency has historically placed on the action.(e) “Regulation” shall have the meaning given to “regulatory action” in section 3(e) of Executive Order 12866, and also includes any “guidance document” as defined in Executive Order 13422 of January 18, 2007 (Further Amendment to Executive Order 12866 on Regulatory Planning and Review).(f) “Senior appointee” means an individual appointed by the President, or performing the functions and duties of an office that requires appointment by the President, or a non-career member of the Senior Executive Service (or equivalent agency system). Sec. 7. Exemptions. Notwithstanding any other provision in this order, nothing in this order shall apply to:(a) any action related to a military, national security, homeland security, foreign affairs, or immigration-related function of the United States;(b) any matter pertaining to the executive branch’s management of its employees; or(c) anything else exempted by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Sec. 8. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. Sec. 9. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 19, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose and Policy. It is the policy of the United States, and the purpose of this order, to protect the religious freedoms of Americans and end the anti-Christian weaponization of government. The Founders established a Nation in which people were free to practice their faith without fear of discrimination or retaliation by their government. For that reason, the United States Constitution enshrines the fundamental right to religious liberty in the First Amendment. Federal laws like the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2000bb et seq.), further prohibit government interference with Americans’ rights to exercise their religion. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.), prohibits religious discrimination in employment while Federal hate-crime laws prohibit offenses committed due to religious animus. Yet the previous Administration engaged in an egregious pattern of targeting peaceful Christians, while ignoring violent, anti-Christian offenses. The Biden Department of Justice sought to squelch faith in the public square by bringing Federal criminal charges and obtaining in numerous cases multi-year prison sentences against nearly two dozen peaceful pro-life Christians for praying and demonstrating outside abortion facilities. Those convicted included a Catholic priest and 75-year-old grandmother, as well as an 87-year-old woman and a father of 11 children who were arrested 18 months after praying and singing hymns outside an abortion facility in Tennessee as a part of a politically motivated prosecution campaign by the Biden Administration. I rectified this injustice on January 23, 2025, by issuing pardons in these cases. At the same time, Catholic churches, charities, and pro-life centers sought justice for violence, theft, and arson perpetrated against them, which the Biden Department of Justice largely ignored. After more than 100 attacks, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution condemning this violence and calling on the Biden Administration to enforce the law. Then, in 2023, a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) memorandum asserted that “radical-traditionalist” Catholics were domestic-terrorism threats and suggested infiltrating Catholic churches as “threat mitigation.” This later-retracted FBI memorandum cited as support evidence propaganda from highly partisan sources. The Biden Department of Education sought to repeal religious-liberty protections for faith-based organizations on college campuses. The Biden Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sought to force Christians to affirm radical transgender ideology against their faith. And the Biden Department of Health and Human Services sought to drive Christians who do not conform to certain beliefs on sexual orientation and gender identity out of the foster-care system. The Biden Administration declared March 31, 2024 — Easter Sunday — as “Transgender Day of Visibility.” In this atmosphere of anti-Christian government, hostility and vandalism against Christian churches and places of worship surged, with the number of such identified acts in 2023 exceeding by more than eight times the number from 2018. Catholic churches and institutions have been aggressively targeted with hundreds of acts of hostility, violence, and vandalism. My Administration will not tolerate anti-Christian weaponization of government or unlawful conduct targeting Christians. The law protects the freedom of Americans and groups of Americans to practice their faith in peace, and my Administration will enforce the law and protect these freedoms. My Administration will ensure that any unlawful and improper conduct, policies, or practices that target Christians are identified, terminated, and rectified. Sec. 2. Establishing a Task Force to Eradicate Anti-Christian Bias. (a) There is hereby established within the Department of Justice the Task Force to Eradicate Anti-Christian Bias (Task Force). (b) The Attorney General shall serve as Chair of the Task Force. (c) In addition to the Chair, the Task Force shall consist of the following other members: (i) the Secretary of State; (ii) the Secretary of the Treasury; (iii) the Secretary of Defense; (iv) the Secretary of Labor; (v) the Secretary of Health and Human Services; (vi) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; (vii) the Secretary of Education; (viii) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; (ix) the Secretary of Homeland Security; (x) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget; (xi) Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations; (xii) the Administrator of the Small Business Administration; (xiii) the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; (xiv) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy; (xv) the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency; (xvi) the Chair of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; and (xvii) the heads of such other executive departments, agencies, and offices that the Chair may, from time to time, invite to participate. Sec. 3. Task Force Functions. (a) The Task Force shall meet as required by the Chair and shall take appropriate action to: (i) review the activities of all executive departments and agencies (agencies), including the Department of State, the Department of Justice, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Education, the Department of Homeland Security, and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, over the previous Administration and identify any unlawful anti-Christian policies, practices, or conduct by an agency contrary to the purpose and policy of this order; (ii) recommend to the head of the relevant agency steps to revoke or terminate any violative policies, practices, or conduct identified under subsection (3)(a)(i) of this section and remedial actions to fulfill the purpose and policy of this order; (iii) share information and develop strategies to protect the religious liberties of Americans and advance the purpose and policy of this order; (iv) solicit information and ideas from a broad range of individuals and groups, including Americans affected by anti-Christian conduct, faith-based organizations, and State, local, and Tribal governments, in order to ensure that its work is informed by a broad spectrum of ideas and experiences; (v) identify deficiencies in existing laws and enforcement and regulatory practices that have contributed to unlawful anti-Christian governmental or private conduct and recommend to the relevant agency head, or recommend to the President, through the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, as applicable, appropriate actions that agencies may take to remedy failures to fully enforce the law against acts of anti-Christian hostility, vandalism, and violence; and (vi) recommend to the President, through the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, any additional Presidential or legislative action necessary to rectify past improper anti-Christian conduct, protect religious liberty, or otherwise fulfill the purpose and policy of this order. (b) In order to advise the President regarding its work and assist the President in formulating future policy, the Task Force shall submit to the President, through the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy: (i) a report within 120 days from the date of this order regarding the Task Force’s initial work; (ii) a report within 1 year from the date of this order that summarizes the Task Force’s work; and (iii) a final report upon the dissolution of the Task Force. Sec. 4. Administration. (a) The heads of agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, upon the request of the Chair, provide the Task Force with any information required by the Task Force for the purpose of carrying out its functions. (b) The Department of Justice shall provide such funding and administrative and technical support as the Task Force may require, to the extent permitted by law and as authorized by existing appropriations. Sec. 5. Termination. The Task Force shall terminate 2 years from the date of this order unless extended by the President. Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 6, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. This Executive Order establishes the Department of Government Efficiency to implement the President’s DOGE Agenda, by modernizing Federal technology and software to maximize governmental efficiency and productivity. Sec. 2. Definitions. As used in this order: (a) “Agency” has the meaning given to it in section 551 of title 5, United States Code, except that such term does not include the Executive Office of the President or any components thereof. (b) “Agency Head” means the highest-ranking official of an agency, such as the Secretary, Administrator, Chairman, or Director, unless otherwise specified in this order. Sec. 3. DOGE Structure. (a) Reorganization and Renaming of the United States Digital Service. The United States Digital Service is hereby publicly renamed as the United States DOGE Service (USDS) and shall be established in the Executive Office of the President. (b) Establishment of a Temporary Organization. There shall be a USDS Administrator established in the Executive Office of the President who shall report to the White House Chief of Staff. There is further established within USDS, in accordance with section 3161 of title 5, United States Code, a temporary organization known as “the U.S. DOGE Service Temporary Organization”. The U.S. DOGE Service Temporary Organization shall be headed by the USDS Administrator and shall be dedicated to advancing the President’s 18-month DOGE agenda. The U.S. DOGE Service Temporary Organization shall terminate on July 4, 2026. The termination of the U.S. DOGE Service Temporary Organization shall not be interpreted to imply the termination, attenuation, or amendment of any other authority or provision of this order. (c) DOGE Teams. In consultation with USDS, each Agency Head shall establish within their respective Agencies a DOGE Team of at least four employees, which may include Special Government Employees, hired or assigned within thirty days of the date of this Order. Agency Heads shall select the DOGE Team members in consultation with the USDS Administrator. Each DOGE Team will typically include one DOGE Team Lead, one engineer, one human resources specialist, and one attorney. Agency Heads shall ensure that DOGE Team Leads coordinate their work with USDS and advise their respective Agency Heads on implementing the President ‘s DOGE Agenda. Sec. 4. Modernizing Federal Technology and Software to Maximize Efficiency and Productivity. (a) The USDS Administrator shall commence a Software Modernization Initiative to improve the quality and efficiency of government-wide software, network infrastructure, and information technology (IT) systems. Among other things, the USDS Administrator shall work with Agency Heads to promote inter-operability between agency networks and systems, ensure data integrity, and facilitate responsible data collection and synchronization. (b) Agency Heads shall take all necessary steps, in coordination with the USDS Administrator and to the maximum extent consistent with law, to ensure USDS has full and prompt access to all unclassified agency records, software systems, and IT systems. USDS shall adhere to rigorous data protection standards. (c) This Executive Order displaces all prior executive orders and regulations, insofar as they are subject to direct presidential amendment, that might serve as a barrier to providing USDS access to agency records and systems as described above. Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Policy. America is blessed with an abundance of natural resources and is a leader in energy technologies and innovation that are critical to the economic prosperity and national security of the American people, as well as our partners and allies. We must expand all forms of reliable and affordable energy production to drive down inflation, grow our economy, create good-paying jobs, reestablish American leadership in manufacturing, lead the world in artificial intelligence, and restore peace through strength by wielding our commercial and diplomatic levers to end wars across the world. By utilizing our amazing national assets, including our crude oil, natural gas, lease condensates, natural gas liquids, refined petroleum products, uranium, coal, biofuels, geothermal heat, the kinetic movement of flowing water, and critical minerals, we will preserve and protect our most beautiful places, reduce our dependency on foreign imports, and grow our economy — thereby enabling the reduction of our deficits and our debt.It shall be the policy of my Administration to make America energy dominant. Sec. 2. Establishment. There is hereby established within the Executive Office of the President the National Energy Dominance Council (Council). Sec. 3. Membership. (a) The Secretary of the Interior shall serve as Chair of the Council. The Secretary of Energy shall serve as Vice Chair of the Council.(b) In addition to the Chair and the Vice Chair, the Council shall consist of the following members:(i) the Secretary of State;(ii) the Secretary of the Treasury;(iii) the Secretary of Defense;(iv) the Attorney General;(v) the Secretary of Agriculture;(vi) the Secretary of Commerce;(vii) the Secretary of Transportation;(viii) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;(ix) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;(x) the United States Trade Representative;(xi) the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy;(xii) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;(xiii) the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;(xiv) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;(xv) the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality;(xvi) the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;(xvii) the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy; and(xviii) the heads of such other executive departments and agencies (agencies) as the President may, from time to time, designate. Sec. 4. Functions. (a) The Chair shall convene and preside over meetings of the Council, in consultation with the Office of the Chief of Staff, provided that in his absence the Vice Chair shall preside.(b) The Council shall:(i) advise the President on how best to exercise his authority to produce more energy to make America energy dominant;(ii) advise the President on improving the processes for permitting, production, generation, distribution, regulation, transportation, and export of all forms of American energy, including critical minerals;(iii) provide to the President a recommended National Energy Dominance Strategy to produce more energy that includes long-range goals for achieving energy dominance by cutting red tape, enhancing private sector investments across all sectors of the energy-producing economy, focusing on innovation, and seeking to eliminate longstanding, but unnecessary, regulation;(iv) advise and assist the President in facilitating cooperation among the Federal Government and domestic private sector energy partners; and(v) advise the President on facilitating consistency in energy production policies included in the Strategy developed under subsection (b)(iii) of this section.(c) In performing the advisory functions listed under subsection (b) of this section, the Council, through the Chair, shall, when appropriate, coordinate with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, and the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. The functions of the Council shall report to the Office of the Chief of Staff.(d) Within 100 days of the date of this order, and from time to time thereafter as deemed appropriate by the Chair, the Council shall:(i) recommend to the President a plan to raise awareness on a national level of matters related to energy dominance, such as the urgency of reliable energy; the improvements in technology achieved through reliable energy sources; the national security concerns with removing reliable and affordable energy sources; the jobs supported by the energy sector; and the regulatory constraints driving up the cost of reliable energy to consumers;(ii) advise the President regarding the actions each agency can take under existing authorities to prioritize the policy objective of increasing energy production, such as rapidly and significantly increasing electricity capacity; rapidly facilitating approvals for energy infrastructure; approving the construction of natural gas pipelines to, or in, New England, California, Alaska, and other areas of the country underserved by American natural gas; facilitating the reopening of closed power plants; and bringing Small Modular Nuclear Reactors online;(iii) provide to the President a review of markets most critical to power American homes, cars, and factories with reliable, abundant, and affordable energy;(iv) advise the President regarding incentives to attract and retain private sector energy-production investments;(v) advise the President on identifying and ending practices that raise the cost of energy; and(vi) consult with officials from State, local, and Tribal governments and individuals from the private sector to solicit feedback on how best to expand all forms of energy production. Sec. 5. Administration. (a) The Council shall have such staff and other assistance as may be necessary to carry out its functions.(b) Agencies shall cooperate with the Council and provide such assistance, information, and advice to the Council related to policies that affect energy dominance as the Chair or, at the Chair’s direction, the Vice Chair, shall reasonably request, to the extent permitted by law. Sec. 6. Representation on the National Security Council. The Secretary of the Interior, as Chair of the Council, shall serve as a standing member of the National Security Council. Sec. 7. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.THE WHITE HOUSE, February 14, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. American life expectancy significantly lags behind other developed countries, with pre‑COVID-19 United States life expectancy averaging 78.8 years and comparable countries averaging 82.6 years. This equates to 1.25 billion fewer life years for the United States population. Six in 10 Americans have at least one chronic disease, and four in 10 have two or more chronic diseases. An estimated one in five United States adults lives with a mental illness. These realities become even more painful when contrasted with nations around the globe. Across 204 countries and territories, the United States had the highest age-standardized incidence rate of cancer in 2021, nearly double the next-highest rate. Further, from 1990-2021, the United States experienced an 88 percent increase in cancer, the largest percentage increase of any country evaluated. In 2021, asthma was more than twice as common in the United States than most of Europe, Asia, or Africa. Autism spectrum disorders had the highest prevalence in high-income countries, including the United States, in 2021. Similarly, autoimmune diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease, psoriasis, and multiple sclerosis are more commonly diagnosed in high-income areas such as Europe and North America. Overall, the global comparison data demonstrates that the health of Americans is on an alarming trajectory that requires immediate action. This concern applies urgently to America’s children. In 2022, an estimated 30 million children (40.7 percent) had at least one health condition, such as allergies, asthma, or an autoimmune disease. Autism spectrum disorder now affects 1 in 36 children in the United States — a staggering increase from rates of 1 to 4 out of 10,000 children identified with the condition during the 1980s. Eighteen percent of late adolescents and young adults have fatty liver disease, close to 30 percent of adolescents are prediabetic, and more than 40 percent of adolescents are overweight or obese. These health burdens have continued to increase alongside the increased prescription of medication. For example, in the case of Attention Deficit Disorder/Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, over 3.4 million children are now on medication for the disorder — up from 3.2 million children in 2019-2020 — and the number of children being diagnosed with the condition continues to rise. This poses a dire threat to the American people and our way of life. Seventy-seven percent of young adults do not qualify for the military based in large part on their health scores. Ninety percent of the Nation’s $4.5 trillion in annual healthcare expenditures is for people with chronic and mental health conditions. In short, Americans of all ages are becoming sicker, beset by illnesses that our medical system is not addressing effectively. These trends harm us, our economy, and our security. To fully address the growing health crisis in America, we must re-direct our national focus, in the public and private sectors, toward understanding and drastically lowering chronic disease rates and ending childhood chronic disease. This includes fresh thinking on nutrition, physical activity, healthy lifestyles, over-reliance on medication and treatments, the effects of new technological habits, environmental impacts, and food and drug quality and safety. We must restore the integrity of the scientific process by protecting expert recommendations from inappropriate influence and increasing transparency regarding existing data. We must ensure our healthcare system promotes health rather than just managing disease. Sec. 2. Policy. It shall be the policy of the Federal Government to aggressively combat the critical health challenges facing our citizens, including the rising rates of mental health disorders, obesity, diabetes, and other chronic diseases. To do so, executive departments and agencies (agencies) that address health or healthcare must focus on reversing chronic disease. Under this policy: (a) all federally funded health research should empower Americans through transparency and open-source data, and should avoid or eliminate conflicts of interest that skew outcomes and perpetuate distrust; (b) the National Institutes of Health and other health-related research funded by the Federal Government should prioritize gold-standard research on the root causes of why Americans are getting sick; (c) agencies shall work with farmers to ensure that United States food is the healthiest, most abundant, and most affordable in the world; and (d) agencies shall ensure the availability of expanded treatment options and the flexibility for health insurance coverage to provide benefits that support beneficial lifestyle changes and disease prevention. Sec. 3. Establishment and Composition of the President’s Make America Healthy Again Commission. (a) There is hereby established the President’s Make America Healthy Again Commission (Commission), chaired by the Secretary of Health and Human Services (Chair), with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy serving as Executive Director (Executive Director). (b) In addition to the Chair and the Executive Director, the Commission shall include the following officials, or their designees: (i) the Secretary of Agriculture; (ii) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; (iii) the Secretary of Education; (iv) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; (v) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency; (vi) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget; (vii) the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy; (viii) the Director of the National Economic Council; (ix) the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers; (x) the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy; (xi) the Commissioner of Food and Drugs; (xii) the Director for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; (xiii) the Director of the National Institutes of Health; and (xiv) other members of my Administration invited to participate, at the discretion of the Chair and the Executive Director. Sec. 4. Fighting Childhood Chronic Disease. The initial mission of the Commission shall be to advise and assist the President on how best to exercise his authority to address the childhood chronic disease crisis. Therefore, the Commission shall: (a) study the scope of the childhood chronic disease crisis and any potential contributing causes, including the American diet, absorption of toxic material, medical treatments, lifestyle, environmental factors, Government policies, food production techniques, electromagnetic radiation, and corporate influence or cronyism; (b) advise and assist the President on informing the American people regarding the childhood chronic disease crisis, using transparent and clear facts; and (c) provide to the President Government-wide recommendations on policy and strategy related to addressing the identified contributing causes of and ending the childhood chronic disease crisis. Sec. 5. Initial Assessment and Strategy from the Make America Healthy Again Commission. (a) Make our Children Healthy Again Assessment. Within 100 days of the date of this order, the Commission shall submit to the President, through the Chair and the Executive Director, the Make Our Children Healthy Again Assessment, which shall: (i) identify and describe childhood chronic disease in America compared to other countries; (ii) assess the threat that potential over-utilization of medication, certain food ingredients, certain chemicals, and certain other exposures pose to children with respect to chronic inflammation or other established mechanisms of disease, using rigorous and transparent data, including international comparisons; (iii) assess the prevalence of and threat posed by the prescription of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, stimulants, and weight-loss drugs; (iv) identify and report on best practices for preventing childhood health issues, including through proper nutrition and the promotion of healthy lifestyles; (v) evaluate the effectiveness of existing educational programs with regard to nutrition, physical activity, and mental health for children; (vi) identify and evaluate existing Federal programs and funding intended to prevent and treat childhood health issues for their scope and effectiveness; (vii) ensure transparency of all current data and unpublished analyses related to the childhood chronic disease crisis, consistent with applicable law; (viii) evaluate the effectiveness of current Federal Government childhood health data and metrics, including those from the Federal Interagency Forum on Child and Family Statistics and the National Survey of Children’s Health; (ix) restore the integrity of science, including by eliminating undue industry influence, releasing findings and underlying data to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law, and increasing methodological rigor; and (x) establish a framework for transparency and ethics review in industry-funded projects. (b) Make our Children Healthy Again Strategy. Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Commission shall submit to the President, through the Chair and the Executive Director, a Make Our Children Healthy Again Strategy (Strategy), based on the findings from the Make Our Children Healthy Again Assessment described in subsection (a) of this section. The Strategy shall address appropriately restructuring the Federal Government’s response to the childhood chronic disease crisis, including by ending Federal practices that exacerbate the health crisis or unsuccessfully attempt to address it, and by adding powerful new solutions that will end childhood chronic disease. (c) The Chair may hold public hearings, meetings, roundtables, and similar events, as appropriate, and may receive expert input from leaders in public health and Government accountability. Sec. 6. Additional Reports. (a) Following the submission to the President of the Strategy, and any final strategy reports thereafter, the Chair and the Executive Director shall recommend to the President updates to the Commission’s mission, including desired reports. (b) The Commission shall not reconvene, following submission of the Strategy, until an updated mission is submitted to the President through the Executive Director. Sec. 7. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 13, 2025.
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and to assist faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship in their efforts to strengthen American families, promote work and self-sufficiency, and protect religious liberty, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Policy. Faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship have tremendous ability to serve individuals, families, and communities through means that are different from those of government and with capacity and effectiveness that often exceeds that of government. These organizations lift people up, keep families strong, and solve problems at the local level. The executive branch wants faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to compete on a level playing field for grants, contracts, programs, and other Federal funding opportunities. The efforts of faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship are essential to strengthening families and revitalizing communities, and the Federal Government welcomes opportunities to partner with such organizations through innovative, measurable, and outcome-driven initiatives.The executive branch is committed to ensuring that all executive departments and agencies (agencies) honor and enforce the Constitution’s guarantee of religious liberty and to ending any form of religious discrimination by the Federal Government. Sec. 2. Amendments to Executive Orders. (a) Executive Order 13198 of January 29, 2001 (Agency Responsibilities With Respect to Faith-Based and Community Initiatives); Executive Order 13279 of December 12, 2002 (Equal Protection of the Laws for Faith-Based and Community Organizations), as amended by Executive Order 13559 of November 17, 2010 (Fundamental Principles and Policymaking Criteria for Partnerships With Faith-Based and Other Neighborhood Organizations); Executive Order 13280 of December 12, 2002 (Responsibilities of the Department of Agriculture and the Agency for International Development With Respect to Faith-Based and Community Initiatives); Executive Order 13342 of June 1, 2004 (Responsibilities of the Departments of Commerce and Veterans Affairs and the Small Business Administration With Respect to Faith-Based and Community Initiatives); and Executive Order 13397 of March 7, 2006 (Responsibilities of the Department of Homeland Security With Respect to Faith-Based and Community Initiatives), are hereby amended by: (i) substituting “White House Faith Office” for “White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives” or “White House OFBCI” each time it appears in those orders; and (ii) substituting “Center for Faith” for “Center for Faith-based and Community Initiatives,” and “Centers for Faith” for “Centers for Faith-based and Community Initiatives” each time they appear in those orders. (b) Executive Order 13279, as amended by Executive Order 13559, is further amended by striking section 2(h) and redesignating sections 2(i) and 2(j) as sections 2(h) and 2(i), respectively. Sec. 3. Establishment of the White House Faith Office. (a) There is established within the Executive Office of the President (EOP) the White House Faith Office (Office). The Office shall have lead responsibility in the executive branch to empower faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship to serve families and communities.(b) The Office shall be housed in the Domestic Policy Council and headed by a Senior Advisor to the White House Faith Office, and supported by other positions as the President considers appropriate. In carrying out this order, the Office shall work with the Domestic Policy Council, the Office of Public Liaison, and the Centers for Faith established by Executive Order 13198, Executive Order 13280, Executive Order 13342, and Executive Order 13397, as amended by section 2(a)(ii) of this order. Sec. 4. White House Faith Office Functions. (a) To the extent permitted by law, the Office shall: (i) from time to time, consult with and seek information from experts and various faith and community leaders identified by the White House Faith Office and other EOP components, including those from outside the Federal Government and those from State, local, and Tribal governments. These experts and leaders shall be identified based on their expertise in a broad range of areas in which faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship operate, including protecting women and children; strengthening marriage and family; lifting up individuals through work and self-sufficiency, defending religious liberty; combatting anti-Semitic, anti-Christian, and additional forms of anti-religious bias; promoting foster care and adoption programs in partnership with faith-based entities; providing wholesome and effective education; preventing and reducing crime and facilitating prisoner reentry; promoting recovery from substance use disorder; and fostering flourishing minds; (ii) make recommendations to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, regarding changes to policies, programs, and practices, and aspects of my Administration’s policy agenda, that affect the ability of faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship to serve families and communities; (iii) convene meetings with representatives from the Centers for Faith and other representatives from across agencies as appropriate; (iv) advise on the implementation throughout the Federal Government of those aspects of my Administration’s policy agenda aimed at enabling faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship to better serve families and communities; (v) showcase innovative initiatives by faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship that serve and strengthen individuals, families, and communities throughout the United States; (vi) coordinate with all agencies to implement training and education throughout the country for faith-based entity grantees to build their capacity to procure grants; (vii) support agencies in developing and implementing training and education regarding religious liberty exceptions, accommodations, or exemptions; (viii) consult with public and private businesses regarding their policies for employee volunteerism, charitable giving, and payroll deductions; (ix) coordinate with agencies on identifying and promoting grant opportunities for non-profit faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship, especially those inexperienced with public funding but that operate effective programs; (x) work in collaboration with the Attorney General, or a designee of the Attorney General, to identify concerns raised by faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship about any failures of the executive branch to enforce constitutional and Federal statutory protections for religious liberty; and (xi) identify and propose means to reduce burdens on the free exercise of religion, including legislative, regulatory, and other barriers to the full and active participation of faith-based entities, community organizations, and houses of worship in government-funded or government-conducted activities and programs. (b) Agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide such information, support, and assistance to the Office as may assist the Office in fulfilling this order. (c) The Directors of each Center of Faith shall oversee their respective agency’s efforts to assist the Office in carrying out this order, and shall report on such efforts to agency leadership and the Office. Agencies that lack a Center for Faith shall designate or appoint a Faith Liaison within the agency to oversee the agency’s efforts to assist the Office in carrying out this order and to report on such efforts to agency leadership and the Office. All such agencies shall designate or appoint such a Faith Liaison within 90 days of the date of this order. Sec. 5. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 7, 2025.
Executive Grant of ClemencyDonald J. TrumpPresident of the United States of AmericaTo All to Whom These Presents Shall Come, Greeting: Be it Known, that This Day, I, Donald J. Trump, President of the United States, Pursuant to My Powers Under Article II, Section 2, Clause 1, of the Constitution, Have Granted UntoAndrew ZabavskyA Full and Unconditional PardonFor Hisconvictions in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, on an indictment (Docket No. 1:21-cr-00598-PLF), of violations of section 371, title 18, United States Code, and section 1512, title 18, United States Code, for which he was sentenced on September 12, 2024, to 48 months of imprisonment on each count (to run concurrently); 3 years of supervised release; and a special assessment of two hundred dollars ($200).I HEREBY DESIGNATE, direct, and empower, the Pardon Attorney, as my representative, to sign a grant of clemency to the person named herein. The Pardon Attorney shall declare that her action is the act of the President, being performed at my direction.IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto signed my name and caused the seal of the Department of Justice to be affixed.Done at the City of Washington in the District of Columbia this 22nd day of January in the Year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States the two hundred forty-ninth.
Executive Grant of ClemencyDonald J. TrumpPresident of the United States of AmericaTo All to Whom These Presents Shall Come, Greeting: Be it Known, that This Day, I, Donald J. Trump, President of the United States, Pursuant to My Powers Under Article II, Section 2, Clause 1, of the Constitution, Have Granted UntoTERENCE SUTTONA Full and Unconditional Pardon For His convictions in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, on an indictment (Docket No. 1:21-cr-00598-PLF), of violations of section 2103, title 22, District of Columbia Code; section 371, title 18, United States Code; and section 1512, title 18, United States Code; for which he was sentenced on September 12, 2024, to 66, 48, and 48 months of imprisonment, respectively (all to run concurrently); 3 years of supervised release; and a special assessment of three hundred dollars ($300). I HEREBY DESIGNATE, direct, and empower, the Pardon Attorney, as my representative, to sign a grant of clemency to the person named herein. The Pardon Attorney shall declare that her action is the act of the President, being performed at my direction. IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto signed my name and caused the seal of the Department of Justice to be affixed. Done at the City of Washington in the District of Columbia this 22nd day of January in the Year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States the two hundred forty-ninth.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose and Policy. Today, many hopeful couples dream of starting a family, but as many as one in seven are unable to conceive a child. Despite their hopes and efforts, infertility struggles can make conception difficult, turning what should be a joyful experience into an emotional and financial struggle. My Administration recognizes the importance of family formation, and as a Nation, our public policy must make it easier for loving and longing mothers and fathers to have children. In vitro fertilization (IVF) offers hope to men and women experiencing fertility challenges. Americans need reliable access to IVF and more affordable treatment options, as the cost per cycle can range from $12,000 to $25,000. Providing support, awareness, and access to affordable fertility treatments can help these families navigate their path to parenthood with hope and confidence. Therefore, to support American families, it is the policy of my Administration to ensure reliable access to IVF treatment, including by easing unnecessary statutory or regulatory burdens to make IVF treatment drastically more affordable. Sec. 2. Lowering Costs and Reducing Barriers to IVF. Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall submit to the President a list of policy recommendations on protecting IVF access and aggressively reducing out-of-pocket and health plan costs for IVF treatment. Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and to improve the education, well-being, and future success of America’s most prized resource, her young citizens, it is hereby ordered:Section 1. Purpose. Parents want and deserve the best education for their children. But too many children do not thrive in their assigned, government-run K-12 school. According to this year’s National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP), 70 percent of 8th graders were below proficient in reading, and 72 percent were below proficient in math. Moreover, geographically based school assignments exacerbate the cost of housing in districts with preferred schools, straining the finances of millions of American families sacrificing for their children’s futures. When our public education system fails such a large segment of society, it hinders our national competitiveness and devastates families and communities. For this reason, more than a dozen States have enacted universal K-12 scholarship programs, allowing families — rather than the government — to choose the best educational setting for their children. These States have highlighted the most promising avenue for education reform: educational choice for families and competition for residentially assigned, government-run public schools. The growing body of rigorous research demonstrates that well-designed education-freedom programs improve student achievement and cause nearby public schools to improve their performance. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of my Administration to support parents in choosing and directing the upbringing and education of their children. Sec. 3. Guidance on Supporting State-based K-12 Educational Choice. Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Education shall issue guidance regarding how States can use Federal formula funds to support K-12 educational choice initiatives.Sec. 4. Encouraging Education Freedom through Discretionary Grant Programs. (a) The Secretary of Education shall include education freedom as a priority in discretionary grant programs, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law. (b) Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Education shall review their respective discretionary grant programs and each submit a plan to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, that identifies, evaluates, and makes recommendations regarding using relevant discretionary grant programs to expand education freedom for America’s families and teachers. Sec. 5. Expanding Opportunities for Low-Income, Working Families. Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall issue guidance regarding whether and how States receiving block grants for families and children from the Department, including the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDGB), can use them to expand educational choice and support families who choose educational alternatives to governmental entities, including private and faith-based options.Sec. 6. Helping Military Families. Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Defense shall review any available mechanisms under which military-connected families may use funds from the Department of Defense to attend schools of their choice, including private, faith-based, or public charter schools, and submit a plan to the President describing such mechanisms and the steps that would be necessary to implement them beginning in the 2025-26 school year.Sec. 7. Helping Children Eligible for Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) Schools. Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of the Interior shall review any available mechanisms under which families of students eligible to attend BIE schools may use their Federal funding for educational options of their choice, including private, faith-based, or public charter schools, and submit a plan to the President describing such mechanisms and the steps that would be necessary to implement them for the 2025-26 school year. The Secretary shall report on the current performance of BIE schools and identify educational options in nearby areas. Sec. 8. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY SUBJECT: Expanding Migrant Operations Center at Naval Station Guantanamo Bay to Full Capacity I hereby direct the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security to take all appropriate actions to expand the Migrant Operations Center at Naval Station Guantanamo Bay to full capacity to provide additional detention space for high-priority criminal aliens unlawfully present in the United States, and to address attendant immigration enforcement needs identified by the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security. This memorandum is issued in order to halt the border invasion, dismantle criminal cartels, and restore national sovereignty. This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR SUBJECT: Federal Recognition of the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina Section 1. Purpose and Policy. The Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina, known as the People of the Dark Water, have a long and storied history. The tribe’s members were descendants of several tribal nations from the Algonquian, Iroquoian, and Siouan language families, including the Hatteras, the Tuscarora, and the Cheraw. The waters of the Lumbee River and lands that surround it have protected and provided for the Lumbee people for centuries despite war, disease, and many other perils. In 1885, the State of North Carolina recognized the Lumbee people as an Indian tribe. 1885 N.C. Sess. Laws 92. In 1956, President Dwight D. Eisenhower signed the Lumbee Act (Public Law 84-570, 70 Stat. 254), which recognized the Lumbee as the Lumbee Indians of North Carolina but denied Lumbee Indians Federal benefits associated with such recognition. Today, according to the State of North Carolina, the Lumbee Tribe consists of more than 55,000 members, making it the largest tribe east of the Mississippi River and the ninth-largest tribe in the Nation. In 2024, the United States House of Representatives passed, by a vote of 311-96, the Lumbee Fairness Act (H.R. 1101), which would grant the Lumbee Tribe full Federal recognition, but this legislation was not considered by the United States Senate before the end of the 118th Congress. Similar legislation has passed the House of Representatives several times. Considering the Lumbee Tribe’s historical and modern significance, it is the policy of the United States to support the full Federal recognition, including the authority to receive full Federal benefits, of the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina. Sec. 2. Directive for Recognition Plan. (a) Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, the Secretary of the Interior shall review all applicable authorities regarding the recognition or acknowledgement of Indian tribes and, in consultation with the leadership of the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina, shall submit to the President a plan to assist the Lumbee Tribe in obtaining full Federal recognition through legislation or other available mechanisms, including the right to receive full Federal benefits. (b) The plan shall include consideration and analysis of each potential legal pathway to effectuate full Federal recognition of the Lumbee Tribe, including through an act of the Congress, judicial action, or the Procedures for Federal Acknowledgement of Indian Tribes set forth in 25 C.F.R. Part 83. (c) The Secretary of the Interior is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
First Lady Melania Trump announced that the White House will officially open for public tours on Tuesday, February 25, 2025. “The President and I are excited to reopen the White House to those interested in the extraordinary story of this iconic and beautiful landmark. There is much to learn about the American Presidency, the First Families who have lived here, and our Nation’s rich history from a firsthand experience at the White House. This opportunity is unique among nations around the globe—a tradition we are honored to continue for the hundreds of thousands of visitors who come each year,” said First Lady Melania Trump. Public tours must be requested through Members of Congress, and requests may be submitted up to three months in advance. Tours are scheduled on a first-come-first-served basis. Tours are self-guided, typically last 45 minutes, and will generally be available from 7:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Tuesday through Thursday as well as 7:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Friday through Saturday (excluding Federal holidays or unless otherwise noted). When possible, public tour hours will be extended based on the official White House schedule. For more information, including what visitors will need to access the White House campus, please visit www.WhiteHouse.gov/Visit.
The official portrait of First Lady Melania Trump was captured on January 21, 2025, in the Yellow Oval Room of the residence by esteemed photographer Régine Mahaux.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA A PROCLAMATION By the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in honor of Inauguration Day and everything good and noble that it represents about our Nation, our people, and our form of Government, I hereby order that, on this and all future Inauguration Days, the flag of the United States shall be flown at full-staff. Accordingly, I hereby order that the flag of the United States shall be flown at full-staff at the White House and upon all public buildings and grounds, at all military posts and naval stations, and on all naval vessels of the Federal Government, in the District of Columbia and throughout the United States and its Territories and possessions, for the remainder of this day beginning immediately. I also direct that, for the same period of time, the flag shall be flown at full-staff at all United States embassies, legations, consular offices, and other facilities abroad, including all military facilities and naval vessels and stations. Upon the end of this Inauguration Day, I hereby order that the flag of the United States shall be returned to half-staff as directed by Proclamation 10876 of December 29, 2024 (Announcing the Death of James Earl Carter, Jr.), in recognition of the memory of our former President, until the period of 30 days from the day of his death has concluded. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth. (AS PREPARED)
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA A PROCLAMATION This proclamation ends a grave national injustice that has been perpetrated upon the American people over the last four years and begins a process of national reconciliation. Acting pursuant to the grant of authority in Article II, Section 2, of the Constitution of the United States, I do hereby: (a) commute the sentences of the following individuals convicted of offenses related to events that occurred at or near the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021, to time served as of January 20, 2025: • Stewart Rhodes • Kelly Meggs • Kenneth Harrelson • Thomas Caldwell • Jessica Watkins • Roberto Minuta • Edward Vallejo • David Moerschel • Joseph Hackett • Ethan Nordean • Joseph Biggs • Zachary Rehl • Dominic Pezzola • Jeremy Bertino (b) grant a full, complete and unconditional pardon to all other individuals convicted of offenses related to events that occurred at or near the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021; The Attorney General shall administer and effectuate the immediate issuance of certificates of pardon to all individuals described in section (b) above, and shall ensure that all individuals convicted of offenses related to events that occurred at or near the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021, who are currently held in prison are released immediately. The Bureau of Prisons shall immediately implement all instructions from the Department of Justice regarding this directive. I further direct the Attorney General to pursue dismissal with prejudice to the government of all pending indictments against individuals for their conduct related to the events at or near the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021. The Bureau of Prisons shall immediately implement all instructions from the Department of Justice regarding this directive. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA A PROCLAMATION By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, I hereby proclaim: An essential feature of any sovereign nation is the existence of territorial boundaries and the inherent authority to decide who and what may cross those boundaries. The Supreme Court of the United States has described this power as a “fundamental act of sovereignty,” which “stems not alone from legislative power but is inherent in the executive power to control the foreign affairs of the nation.” U.S. ex rel. Knauff v. Shaughnessy, 338 U.S. 537, 542 (1950). The Supreme Court has recognized the inherent right and duty of the Executive Branch to defend our national sovereignty, stating that “[w]hen Congress prescribes a procedure concerning the admissibility of aliens, it is not dealing alone with a legislative power. It is implementing an inherent executive power.” Id. The Congress has, in establishing “an uniform Rule of Naturalization,” created a complex and comprehensive Federal scheme in the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq., to control the entry and exit of people and goods across the borders of the United States. In routine circumstances, this complex and comprehensive scheme can protect the national sovereignty of the United States by facilitating the admission of individuals whose presence serves the national interest and preventing the admission of those who do not, such as those aliens who pose threats to public health, section 212(a)(1) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(1); safety, section 212(a)(2) (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)); and national security, section 212(a)(3) (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)). Prospective immigrants who use the visa system are screened for such health, safety, and security concerns while outside of the United States, and are not permitted to enter the United States until they establish that they are eligible to be admitted as a matter of law and should be admitted as a matter of discretion. But screening under those provisions of the INA can be wholly ineffective in the border environment, where access to necessary information is limited for aliens who have traveled from countries around the world to enter the United States illegally, or when the system is overwhelmed, leading to the unauthorized entry of innumerable illegal aliens into the United States. Due to significant information gaps — particularly in the border environment — and processing times, Federal officials do not have the ability to verify with certainty the criminal record or national-security risks associated with the illegal entry of every alien at the southern border, as required by section 212(a)(2)-(3) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)-(3). Nor do aliens who illegally cross the southern border readily provide comprehensive background information from their home countries to Federal law enforcement officials. The public safety and national security risks in such an environment are heightened by the presence of, and control of territory by, international cartels and other transnational criminal organizations on the other side of the southern border, as well as terrorists and other malign actors who intend to harm the United States and the American people. And the risks associated with these issues are greatly exacerbated when the number of aliens illegally crossing the southern border increases to levels that prevent actual operational control of the border. The same is true for public health, where the Federal Government currently lacks an effective operational capability to screen all illegal aliens crossing the southern border for communicable diseases of public-health concern, as required by section 212(a)(1) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(1). Effectively no aliens who illegally enter the United States provide Federal officials at the southern border with their comprehensive health information, as a lawful immigrant would. As a result, innumerable aliens potentially carrying communicable diseases of public health significance illegally cross the southern border and enter communities across the United States. Over the last 4 years, at least 8 million illegal aliens were encountered along the southern border of the United States, and countless millions more evaded detection and illegally entered the United States. The sheer number of aliens entering the United States has overwhelmed the system and rendered many of the INA’s provisions ineffective, including those previously described that are intended to prevent aliens posing threats to public health, safety, and national security from entering the United States. As a result, millions of aliens who potentially pose significant threats to health, safety, and national security have moved into communities nationwide. This ongoing influx of illegal aliens across the southern border of the United States has placed significant costs and constraints upon the States, which have collectively spent billions of dollars in providing medical care and related human services, and have spent considerable amounts on increased law enforcement costs associated with the presence of these illegal aliens within their boundaries. In joining the Union, the States agreed to surrender much of their sovereignty and join the Union in exchange for the Federal Government’s promise in Article IV, Section 4 of the U.S. Constitution, to “protect each of [the States] against Invasion.” I have determined that the current state of the southern border reveals that the Federal Government has failed in fulfilling this obligation to the States and hereby declare that an invasion is ongoing at the southern border, which requires the Federal Government to take measures to fulfill its obligation to the States. The INA provides the President with certain emergency tools. For example, it states that “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate.” 8 U.S.C. 1182(f). This statute “exudes deference to the President in every clause.” Trump v. Hawaii, 585 U.S. 667, 684 (2018). Further, the INA renders it unlawful for “any alien to depart from or enter or attempt to depart from or enter the United States except under such reasonable rules, regulations, and orders, and subject to such limitations and exceptions as the President may prescribe.” 8 U.S.C. 1185(a)(1). Historically, Presidents have used these statutory authorities to deny entry of designated classes and categories of aliens into the United States through ports of entry. But if the President has the power to deny entry of any alien into the United States, and to impose any restrictions as he may deem appropriate, this authority necessarily includes the right to deny the physical entry of aliens into the United States and impose restrictions on access to portions of the immigration system, particularly when the number of aliens illegally crossing the southern border prevents the Federal Government from obtaining operational control of the border. The INA does not, however, occupy the Federal Government’s field of authority to protect the sovereignty of the United States, particularly in times of emergency when entire provisions of the INA are rendered ineffective by operational constraints, such as when there is an ongoing invasion into the States. The President’s inherent powers to control the borders of the United States, including those deriving from his authority to control the foreign affairs of the United States, necessarily include the ability to prevent the physical entry of aliens involved in an invasion into the United States, and to rapidly repatriate them to an alternative location. Only through such measures can the President guarantee the right of each State to be protected against invasion. By the power vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, I have determined that the current situation at the southern border qualifies as an invasion under Article IV, Section 4 of the Constitution of the United States. Accordingly, I am issuing this Proclamation based on my express and inherent powers in Article II of the Constitution of the United States, and in faithful execution of the immigration laws passed by the Congress, and suspending the physical entry of aliens involved in an invasion into the United States across the southern border until I determine that the invasion has concluded. NOW, THEREFORE, I, Donald J. Trump, President of the United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, hereby direct as follows: Section 1. Suspension of Entry. I hereby proclaim, pursuant to sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), that the entry into the United States on or after the date of this order of aliens engaged in the invasion across the southern border is detrimental to the interests of the United States. I therefore direct that entry into the United States of such aliens be suspended until I issue a finding that the invasion at the southern border has ceased. Sec. 2. Imposition of Restrictions on Entry for Aliens Invading the United States. I hereby proclaim, pursuant to sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), that aliens engaged in the invasion across the southern border of the United States on or after the date of this proclamation are restricted from invoking provisions of the INA that would permit their continued presence in the United States, including, but not limited to, section 208 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1158, until I issue a finding that the invasion at the southern border has ceased. Sec. 3. Suspension of and Restriction on Entry for Aliens Posing Public Health, Safety, or National Security Risks. I hereby proclaim, pursuant to sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), that the entry into the United States, on or after the date of this order, of any alien who fails, before entering the United States, to provide Federal officials with sufficient medical information and reliable criminal history and background information as to enable fulfillment of the requirements of sections 212(a)(1)-(3) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(1)-(3), is detrimental to the interests of the United States. I therefore direct that entry into the United States of such aliens be suspended and restrict their access to provisions of the INA that would permit their continued presence in the United States, including, but not limited to, section 208 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1158. Sec. 4. Constitutional Suspension of Physical Entry. Under the authorities provided to me under Article II of the Constitution of the United States, including my control over foreign affairs, and to effectuate the guarantee of protection against invasion required by Article IV, Section 4, I hereby suspend the physical entry of any alien engaged in the invasion across the southern border of the United States, and direct the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, to take appropriate actions as may be necessary to achieve the objectives of this proclamation, until I issue a finding that the invasion at the southern border has ceased. Sec. 5. Operational Actions to Repel the Invasion. The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, shall take all appropriate action to repel, repatriate, or remove any alien engaged in the invasion across the southern border of the United States on or after the date of this order, whether as an exercise of the suspension power in section 212(f) and 215(a) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), or as an exercise of my delegated authority under the Constitution of the United States, until I issue a finding that the invasion at the southern border has ceased. Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This proclamation shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA A PROCLAMATION Today, I am very honored to recognize February 9, 2025, as the first ever Gulf of America Day. On January 20, 2025, I signed Executive Order 14172 (“Restoring Names That Honor American Greatness”). Among other actions, that Executive Order required the Secretary of the Interior, acting pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 364 through 364f, to “take all appropriate actions to rename as the ‘Gulf of America’ the U.S. Continental Shelf area bounded on the northeast, north, and northwest by the State of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida and extending to the seaward boundary with Mexico and Cuba in the area formerly named as the Gulf of Mexico.” I took this action in part because, as stated in that Order, “[t]he area formerly known as the Gulf of Mexico has long been an integral asset to our once burgeoning Nation and has remained an indelible part of America.” Today, I am making my first visit to the Gulf of America since its renaming. As my Administration restores American pride in the history of American greatness, it is fitting and appropriate for our great Nation to come together and commemorate this momentous occasion and the renaming of the Gulf of America. NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim February 9, 2025, as Gulf of America Day. I call upon public officials and all the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, I hereby order a freeze on the hiring of Federal civilian employees, to be applied throughout the executive branch. As part of this freeze, no Federal civilian position that is vacant at noon on January 20, 2025, may be filled, and no new position may be created except as otherwise provided for in this memorandum or other applicable law. Except as provided below, this freeze applies to all executive departments and agencies regardless of their sources of operational and programmatic funding. This order does not apply to military personnel of the armed forces or to positions related to immigration enforcement, national security, or public safety. Moreover, nothing in this memorandum shall adversely impact the provision of Social Security, Medicare, or Veterans’ benefits. In addition, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) may grant exemptions from this freeze where those exemptions are otherwise necessary. Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), in consultation with the Director of OPM and the Administrator of the United States DOGE Service (USDS), shall submit a plan to reduce the size of the Federal Government’s workforce through efficiency improvements and attrition. Upon issuance of the OMB plan, this memorandum shall expire for all executive departments and agencies, with the exception of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). This memorandum shall remain in effect for the IRS until the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Director of OMB and the Administrator of USDS, determines that it is in the national interest to lift the freeze. Contracting outside the Federal Government to circumvent the intent of this memorandum is prohibited. In carrying out this memorandum, the heads of executive departments and agencies shall seek efficient use of existing personnel and funds to improve public services and the delivery of these services. Accordingly, this memorandum does not prohibit making reallocations to meet the highest priority needs, maintain essential services, and protect national security, homeland security, and public safety. This memorandum does not limit the nomination and appointment of officials to positions requiring Presidential appointment or Senate confirmation, the appointment of officials to non-career positions in the Senior Executive Service or to Schedule A or C positions in the Excepted Service, the appointment of officials through temporary organization hiring authority pursuant to section 3161 of title 5, United States Code, or the appointment of any other non-career employees or officials if approved by agency leadership appointed by the President. Moreover, it does not limit the hiring of personnel where such a limit would conflict with applicable law. This memorandum does not abrogate any collective bargaining agreement in effect on the date of this memorandum.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. In the closing weeks of the 2020 Presidential campaign, at least 51 former intelligence officials coordinated with the Biden campaign to issue a letter discrediting the reporting that President Joseph R. Biden’s son had abandoned his laptop at a computer repair business. Signatories of the letter falsely suggested that the news story was part of a Russian disinformation campaign. Before being issued, the letter was sent to the CIA Prepublication Classification Review Board, the body typically assigned to formally evaluate the sensitive nature of documents prior to publication. Senior CIA officials were made aware of the contents of the letter, and multiple signatories held clearances at the time and maintained ongoing contractual relationships with the CIA. Federal policymakers must be able to rely on analysis conducted by the Intelligence Community and be confident that it is accurate, crafted with professionalism, and free from politically motivated engineering to affect political outcomes in the United States. The signatories willfully weaponized the gravitas of the Intelligence Community to manipulate the political process and undermine our democratic institutions. This fabrication of the imprimatur of the Intelligence Community to suppress information essential to the American people during a Presidential election is an egregious breach of trust reminiscent of a third world country. And now the faith of Americans in all other patriotic intelligence professionals who are sworn to protect the Nation has been imperiled. National security is also damaged by the publication of classified information. Former National Security Advisor John R. Bolton published a memoir for monetary gain after he was terminated from his White House position in 2019. The book was rife with sensitive information drawn from his time in government. The memoir’s reckless treatment of sensitive information undermined the ability of future presidents to request and obtain candid advice on matters of national security from their staff. Publication also created a grave risk that classified material was publicly exposed. To remedy these abuses of the public trust, this Order directs the revocation of any active or current security clearances held by: (i) the former intelligence officials who engaged in misleading and inappropriate political coordination with the 2020 Biden presidential campaign; and (ii) John R. Bolton. Sec. 2. Policy. (a) It is the policy of the United States to ensure that the Intelligence Community not be engaged in partisan politics or otherwise used by a U.S. political campaign for electioneering purposes. The term “Intelligence Community” has the meaning given the term in section 3003 of title 50, United States Code. (b) It is the policy of the United States that individuals who hold government-issued security clearances should not use their clearance status to influence U.S. elections. (c) It is the policy of the United States that classified information not be publicly disclosed in memoirs, especially those published for personal monetary gain. Sec. 3. Implementation. (a) Effective immediately, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, shall revoke any current or active clearances held by the following individuals: (1) James R. Clapper Jr. (2) Michael V. Hayden (3) Leon E. Panetta (4) John O. Brennan (5) C. Thomas Fingar (6) Richard H. Ledgett Jr. (7) John E. McLaughlin (8) Michael J. Morell (9) Michael G. Vickers (10) Douglas H. Wise (11) Nicholas J. Rasmussen (12) Russell E. Travers (13) Andrew Liepman (14) John H. Moseman (15) Larry Pfeiffer (16) Jeremy B. Bash (17) Rodney Snyder (18) Glenn S. Gerstell (19) David B. Buckley (20) Nada G. Bakos (21) James B. Bruce (22) David S. Cariens (23) Janice Cariens (24) Paul R. Kolbe (25) Peter L. Corsell (26) Roger Z. George (27) Steven L. Hall (28) Kent Harrington (29) Don Hepburn (30) Timothy D. Kilbourn (31) Ronald A. Marks (32) Jonna H. Mendez (33) Emile Nakhleh (34) Gerald A. O’Shea (35) David Priess (36) Pamela Purcilly (37) Marc Polymeropoulos (38) Chris Savos (39) Nick Shapiro (40) John Sipher (41) Stephen B. Slick (42) Cynthia Strand (43) Greg Tarbell (44) David Terry (45) Gregory F. Treverton (46) John D. Tullius (47) David A. Vanell (48) Winston P. Wiley (49) Kristin Wood (50) John R. Bolton Two signatories, Patty Patricia A. Brandmaeir and Brett Davis, are deceased. (b) Within 90 days of this order, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, shall submit a report to the President through the National Security Advisor that details: (i) any additional inappropriate activity that occurred within the Intelligence Community, by anyone contracted by the Intelligence Community or by anyone who held a security clearance, related to the letter signed by the 51 former intelligence officials; (ii) recommendations to prevent the Intelligence Community or anyone who works for or within it from inappropriately influencing domestic elections; and (iii) any disciplinary action—including the termination of security clearances—that should be taken against anyone who engaged in inappropriate conduct related to the letter signed by the 51 former intelligence officials. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
Illegal immigration at the southern border “plummeted” in January amid President Donald J. Trump’s return to office and immediate crackdown. Call it the Trump Effect. According to newly released data from Customs and Border Protection (CBP), just 61,465 illegal aliens were apprehended at the southern border during the entire month of January — a 36% decline from the previous month. That number includes 29,116 apprehended along the border — the lowest since May 2020 — and 32,349 at ports of entry. After President Trump took office, apprehensions declined even more rapidly: “From Jan. 21 through Jan. 31, the number of U.S. Border Patrol apprehensions along the southwest border dropped 85% from the same period in 2024, according to data obtained by ABC News. In the 11 days after Jan. 20, migrants apprehended at ports of entry declined by 93%.” During the previous administration, the average number of illegal aliens encountered at the southern border in January was 141,710 — the result of dangerous policies that ferried illegal aliens directly into our communities, where they were allowed to stay indefinitely. Now, under President Trump, illegal border crossings are at record lows as illegal aliens are promptly arrested and sent home.
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION SUBJECT: Immediate Assessment of Aviation Safety On January 29, 2025, a commercial aircraft and a military helicopter horrifically collided near Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport. American families today woke up without their loved ones after what should have been a routine trip, and the entire Nation mourns the loss of the victims. This shocking event follows problematic and likely illegal decisions during the Obama and Biden Administrations that minimized merit and competence in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The Obama Administration implemented a biographical questionnaire at the FAA to shift the hiring focus away from objective aptitude. During my first term, my Administration raised standards to achieve the highest standards of safety and excellence. But the Biden Administration egregiously rejected merit-based hiring, requiring all executive departments and agencies to implement dangerous “diversity equity and inclusion” tactics, and specifically recruiting individuals with “severe intellectual” disabilities in the FAA. On my second day in office, I ordered an immediate return to merit-based recruitment, hiring, and promotion, elevating safety and ability as the paramount standard. Yesterday’s devastating accident tragically underscores the need to elevate safety and competence as the priority of the FAA. Consistent with the Presidential Memorandum of January 21, 2025 (Keeping Americans Safe in Aviation), I am further ordering the Secretary of Transportation (Secretary) and the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (Administrator) to review all hiring decisions and changes to safety protocols made during the prior 4 years, and to take such corrective action as necessary to achieve uncompromised aviation safety, including the replacement of any individuals who do not meet qualification standards. This review shall include a systematic assessment of any deterioration in hiring standards and aviation safety standards and protocols during the Biden Administration. Consistent with the Presidential Memorandum of January 21, 2025, the Secretary and the Administrator shall take all actions necessary to reverse concerning safety and personnel trends during the prior 4 years, instill an unwavering commitment to aviation safety, and ensure that all Americans fly with peace of mind. 
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. To restore accountability to the American public, this order commences a critical transformation of the Federal bureaucracy. By eliminating waste, bloat, and insularity, my Administration will empower American families, workers, taxpayers, and our system of Government itself. Sec. 2. Definitions. (a) “Agency” has the meaning given to it in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code, except that such term does not include the Executive Office of the President or any components thereof. (b) “Agency Head” means the highest-ranking official of an agency, such as the Secretary, Administrator, Chairman, or Director, unless otherwise specified in this order. (c) “DOGE Team Lead” means the leader of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) Team at each agency, as defined in Executive Order 14158 of January 20, 2025 (Establishing and Implementing the President’s “Department of Government Efficiency”). (d) “Employee” has the meaning given to it by section 2105 of title 5, United States Code, and includes individuals who serve in the executive branch and who qualify as employees under that section for any purpose. (e) “Immigration enforcement” means the investigation, enforcement, or assisting in the investigation or enforcement of Federal immigration law, including with respect to Federal immigration law that penalizes a person’s presence in, entry, or reentry to, or employment in, the United States, but does not include assisting individuals in applying for immigration benefits or efforts to prevent enforcement of immigration law or to prevent deportation or removal from the United States. (f) “Law enforcement” means: (i) engagement in or supervision of the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person for, any violation of law; or (ii) the protection of Federal, State, local, or foreign government officials against threats to personal safety. (g) “Temporary employee” has the meaning given to it in 5 C.F.R. part 316. (h) “Reemployed annuitant” has the meaning given to it in 5 C.F.R. part 837. Sec. 3. Reforming the Federal Workforce to Maximize Efficiency and Productivity. (a) Hiring Ratio. Pursuant to the Presidential Memorandum of January 20, 2025 (Hiring Freeze), the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit a plan to reduce the size of the Federal Government’s workforce through efficiency improvements and attrition (Plan). The Plan shall require that each agency hire no more than one employee for every four employees that depart, consistent with the plan and any applicable exemptions and details provided for in the Plan. This order does not affect the standing freeze on hiring as applied to the Internal Revenue Service. This ratio shall not apply to functions related to public safety, immigration enforcement, or law enforcement. Agency Heads shall also adhere to the Federal Hiring Plan that will be promulgated pursuant to Executive Order 14170 of January 20, 2025 (Reforming the Federal Hiring Process and Restoring Merit to Government Service). (b) Hiring Approval. Each Agency Head shall develop a data-driven plan, in consultation with its DOGE Team Lead, to ensure new career appointment hires are in highest-need areas. (i) This hiring plan shall include that new career appointment hiring decisions shall be made in consultation with the agency’s DOGE Team Lead, consistent with applicable law. (ii) The agency shall not fill any vacancies for career appointments that the DOGE Team Lead assesses should not be filled, unless the Agency Head determines the positions should be filled. (iii) Each DOGE Team Lead shall provide the United States DOGE Service (USDS) Administrator with a monthly hiring report for the agency. (c) Reductions in Force. Agency Heads shall promptly undertake preparations to initiate large-scale reductions in force (RIFs), consistent with applicable law, and to separate from Federal service temporary employees and reemployed annuitants working in areas that will likely be subject to the RIFs. All offices that perform functions not mandated by statute or other law shall be prioritized in the RIFs, including all agency diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives; all agency initiatives, components, or operations that my Administration suspends or closes; and all components and employees performing functions not mandated by statute or other law who are not typically designated as essential during a lapse in appropriations as provided in the Agency Contingency Plans on the Office of Management and Budget website. This subsection shall not apply to functions related to public safety, immigration enforcement, or law enforcement. (d) Rulemaking. Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) shall initiate a rulemaking that proposes to revise 5 C.F.R. 731.202(b) to include additional suitability criteria, including: (i) failure to comply with generally applicable legal obligations, including timely filing of tax returns; (ii) failure to comply with any provision that would preclude regular Federal service, including citizenship requirements; (iii) refusal to certify compliance with any applicable nondisclosure obligations, consistent with 5 U.S.C. 2302(b)(13), and failure to adhere to those compliance obligations in the course of Federal employment; and (iv) theft or misuse of Government resources and equipment, or negligent loss of material Government resources and equipment. (e) Developing Agency Reorganization Plans. Within 30 days of the date of this order, Agency Heads shall submit to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget a report that identifies any statutes that establish the agency, or subcomponents of the agency, as statutorily required entities. The report shall discuss whether the agency or any of its subcomponents should be eliminated or consolidated. (f) Within 240 days of the date of this order, the USDS Administrator shall submit a report to the President regarding implementation of this order, including a recommendation as to whether any of its provisions should be extended, modified, or terminated. Sec. 4. Exclusions. (a) This order does not apply to military personnel. (b) Agency Heads may exempt from this order any position they deem necessary to meet national security, homeland security, or public safety responsibilities. (c) The Director of OPM may grant exemptions from this order where those exemptions are otherwise necessary and shall assist in promoting workforce reduction. Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.THE WHITE HOUSE, February 11, 2025.
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that the sustained influx of illicit opioids and other drugs has profound consequences on our Nation, endangering lives and putting a severe strain on our healthcare system, public services, and communities. This challenge threatens the fabric of our society. Gang members, smugglers, human traffickers, and illicit drugs of all kinds have poured across our borders and into our communities. Canada has played a central role in these challenges, including by failing to devote sufficient attention and resources or meaningfully coordinate with United States law enforcement partners to effectively stem the tide of illicit drugs. Drug trafficking organizations (DTOs) are the world’s leading producers of fentanyl, methamphetamine, cocaine, and other illicit drugs, and they cultivate, process, and distribute massive quantities of narcotics that fuel addiction and violence in communities across the United States. These DTOs often collaborate with transnational cartels to smuggle illicit drugs into the United States, utilizing clandestine airstrips, maritime routes, and overland corridors. The challenges at our southern border are foremost in the public consciousness, but our northern border is not exempt from these issues. Criminal networks are implicated in human trafficking and smuggling operations, enabling unvetted illegal migration across our northern border. There is also a growing presence of Mexican cartels operating fentanyl and nitazene synthesis labs in Canada. The flow of illicit drugs like fentanyl to the United States through both illicit distribution networks and international mail — due, in the case of the latter, to the existing administrative exemption from duty and taxes, also known as de minimis, under section 1321 of title 19, United States Code — has created a public health crisis in the United States, as outlined in the Presidential Memorandum of January 20, 2025 (America First Trade Policy) and Executive Order 14157 of January 20, 2025 (Designating Cartels and Other Organizations as Foreign Terrorist Organizations and Specially Designated Global Terrorists). With respect to smuggling of illicit drugs across our northern border, Canada’s Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre recently published a study on the laundering of proceeds of illicit synthetic opioids, which recognized Canada’s heightened domestic production of fentanyl, largely from British Columbia, and its growing footprint within international narcotics distribution. Despite a North American dialogue on the public health impacts of illicit drugs since 2016, Canadian officials have acknowledged that the problem has only grown. And while U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) within the Department of Homeland Security seized, comparatively, much less fentanyl from Canada than from Mexico last year, fentanyl is so potent that even a very small parcel of the drug can cause many deaths and destruction to America families. In fact, the amount of fentanyl that crossed the northern border last year could kill 9.5 million Americans. Immediate action is required to finally end this public health crisis and national emergency, which will not happen unless the compliance and cooperation of Canada is assured. I hereby determine and order: Section 1. (a) As President of the United States, my highest duty is the defense of the country and its citizens. A Nation without borders is not a nation at all. I will not stand by and allow our sovereignty to be eroded, our laws to be trampled, our citizens to be endangered, or our borders to be disrespected anymore. I previously declared a national emergency with respect to the grave threat to the United States posed by the influx of illegal aliens and illicit drugs into the United States in Proclamation 10886 of January 20, 2025 (Declaring a National Emergency at the Southern Border). Pursuant to the NEA, I hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in that Proclamation to cover the threat to the safety and security of Americans, including the public health crisis of deaths due to the use of fentanyl and other illicit drugs, and the failure of Canada to do more to arrest, seize, detain, or otherwise intercept DTOs, other drug and human traffickers, criminals at large, and drugs. In addition, this failure to act on the part of Canada constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial part outside the United States, to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. I hereby declare and reiterate a national emergency under the NEA and IEEPA to deal with that threat. This national emergency requires decisive and immediate action, and I have decided to impose, consistent with law, ad valorem tariffs on articles that are products of Canada set forth in this order. In doing so, I invoke my authority under section 1702(a)(1)(B) of IEEPA and specifically find that action under other authority to impose tariffs is inadequate to address this unusual and extraordinary threat. Sec. 2. (a) All articles that are products of Canada as defined by the Federal Register notice described in subsection (e) of this section (Federal Register notice), and except for those products described in subsection (b) of this section, shall be, consistent with law, subject to an additional 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty. Such rate of duty shall apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 4, 2025, except that goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after such time that were loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading or in transit on the final mode of transport prior to entry into the United States before 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 1, 2025, shall not be subject to such additional duty, only if the importer certifies to CBP as specified in the Federal Register notice. (b) With respect to energy or energy resources, as defined in section 8 of Executive Order 14156 of January 20, 2025 (Declaring a National Energy Emergency), and as otherwise included in the Federal Register notice, such articles that are products of Canada as defined by the Federal Register notice shall be, consistent with law, subject to an additional 10 percent ad valorem rate of duty. Such rate of duty shall apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 4, 2025, except that goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after such time that were loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading or in transit on the final mode of transport prior to entry into the United States before 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 1, 2025, shall not be subject to such additional duty, only if the importer certifies to CBP as specified in the Federal Register notice. (c) The rates of duty established by this order are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, or charges applicable to such imported articles. (d) Should Canada retaliate against the United States in response to this action through import duties on United States exports to Canada or similar measures, the President may increase or expand in scope the duties imposed under this order to ensure the efficacy of this action. (e) In order to establish the duty rate on imports of articles that are products of Canada, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall determine the modifications necessary to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) in order to effectuate this order consistent with law and shall make such modifications to the HTSUS through notice in the Federal Register. The modifications made to the HTSUS by this notice shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 4, 2025, and shall continue in effect until such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or terminated. (f) Articles that are products of Canada, except those that are eligible for admission under “domestic status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.43, which are subject to the duties imposed by this order and are admitted into a United States foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 4, 2025, except as otherwise noted in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, must be admitted as “privileged foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41. Such articles will be subject upon entry for consumption to the rates of duty related to the classification under the applicable HTSUS subheading in effect at the time of admittance into the United States foreign trade zone. (g) No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties imposed pursuant to this order. (h) For avoidance of doubt, duty-free de minimis treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321 shall not be available for the articles described in subsection (a) and subsection (b) of this section. (i) Any prior Presidential Proclamation, Executive Order, or other Presidential directive or guidance related to trade with Canada that is inconsistent with the direction in this order is hereby terminated, suspended, or modified to the extent necessary to give full effect to this order. (j) The articles described in subsection (a) and subsection (b) of this section shall exclude those encompassed by 50 U.S.C. 1702(b). Sec. 3. (a) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall regularly consult with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security on the situation at our northern border. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall inform the President of any circumstances that, in the opinion of the Secretary of Homeland Security, indicate that the Government of Canada has taken adequate steps to alleviate this public health crisis through cooperative enforcement actions. Upon the President’s determination of sufficient action to alleviate the crisis, the tariffs described in section 2 of this order shall be removed. (b) The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, shall recommend additional action, if necessary, should the Government of Canada fail to take adequate steps to alleviate the illegal migration and illicit drug crises through cooperative enforcement actions. Sec. 4. The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Commerce, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of Homeland Security may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of Homeland Security. All executive departments and agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order. Sec. 5. The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency under IEEPA declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)). Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 1, 2025.
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that the sustained influx of illegal aliens and illicit opioids and other drugs has profound consequences on our Nation, endangering lives and putting a severe strain on our healthcare system, public services, communities, and schools. Since the end of my first term, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) within the Department of Homeland Security has recorded more than three times as many inadmissible encounters nationwide as during my first term. These challenges threaten the fabric of our society. Gang members, smugglers, human traffickers, and illicit drugs of all kinds have poured across our borders and into our communities. Mexico has played a central role in these challenges, including by failing to devote sufficient attention and resources to meaningfully stem the tide of unlawful migration and illicit drugs. Mexican drug trafficking organizations (DTOs) are the world’s leading traffickers of fentanyl, methamphetamine, cocaine, and other illicit drugs, and they cultivate, process, and distribute massive quantities of narcotics that fuel addiction and violence in communities across the United States. These DTOs collaborate and conspire with transnational cartels and other global partners to smuggle drugs into the United States, utilizing clandestine airstrips, maritime routes, tunnels, and overland corridors, and both willing and unwilling human couriers. The Mexican DTOs have an intolerable alliance with the government of Mexico. This alliance endangers the national security of the United States, and we must eradicate the influence of these dangerous cartels from the bilateral environment. The government of Mexico has afforded safe havens for the cartels to engage in the manufacturing and transportation of illicit drugs, which collectively have led to the overdose deaths of hundreds of thousands of American victims. Mexican cartels are also implicated in human trafficking and smuggling operations, enabling the illegal migration of millions across our borders. These operations are often tied to organized crime, and they create pathways for cartel activities to expand into the United States. Furthermore, violent criminals originating from Central and South America easily transit into and through Mexico, and into the United States, where they cause irreparable harm to our citizens. These dangerous criminals are involved in drug-related violence, gang activity, and other crimes that endanger the safety of American communities. Immediate action is required to address the national emergency I declared in Proclamation 10886 of January 20, 2025 (Declaring a National Emergency at the Southern Border of the United States), and to finally end the public health crisis caused by opioid use and addiction, which will not happen unless the compliance and cooperation of the government of Mexico is assured. I hereby determine and order: Section 1. (a) As President of the United States, my highest duty is the defense of the country and its citizens. A Nation without borders is not a Nation at all. I will not stand by and allow our sovereignty to be eroded, our laws to be trampled, our citizens to be endangered, or our borders to be disrespected anymore. I previously declared a national emergency with respect to the grave threat to the United States posed by the influx of illegal aliens and illicit drugs into the United States in Proclamation 10886. Pursuant to the NEA, I hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in that proclamation to cover the failure of Mexico to arrest, seize, detain, or otherwise intercept DTOs, other drug and human traffickers, criminals at large, and illicit drugs. In addition, this failure to act on the part of the government of Mexico constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial part outside the United States, to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. I hereby declare and reiterate a national emergency under the NEA and IEEPA to deal with that threat. This national emergency requires decisive and immediate action, and I have decided to impose, consistent with law, ad valorem tariffs on articles that are products of Mexico as set forth in this order. In doing so, I invoke my authority under section 1702(a)(1)(B) of IEEPA, and specifically find that action under other authority to impose tariffs is inadequate to address this unusual and extraordinary threat. Sec. 2. (a) All articles that are products of Mexico, as defined by the Federal Register notice described in section 2(d) of this order (the Federal Register notice), shall be, consistent with law, subject to an additional 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty. Such rate of duty shall apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 4, 2025, except that goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after such time that were loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading or in transit on the final mode of transport prior to entry into the United States before 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 1, 2025, shall not be subject to such additional duty, only if the importer certifies to CBP as specified in the Federal Register notice. (b) The rates of duty established by this order are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, or charges applicable to such imported articles. (c) Should the government of Mexico retaliate against the United States in response to this action through import duties on United States exports to Mexico or similar measures, the President may increase or expand in scope the duties imposed under this Executive Order to ensure the efficacy of this action. (d) In order to establish the duty rate on imports of articles that are products of Mexico, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall determine the modifications necessary to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) in order to effectuate this order consistent with law and shall make such modifications to the HTSUS through notice in the Federal Register. The modifications made to the HTSUS by this notice shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 4, 2025, except as otherwise noted in subsection 2(a) of this section, and shall continue in effect until such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or terminated. (e) Articles that are products of Mexico, except those that are eligible for admission under “domestic status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.43, which are subject to the duties imposed by this order and are admitted into a United States foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 4, 2025, except as otherwise noted in subsection 2(a) of this section, must be admitted as “privileged foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41. Such articles will be subject upon entry for consumption to the rates of duty related to the classification under the applicable HTSUS subheading in effect at the time of admittance into the United States foreign trade zone. (f) No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties imposed pursuant to this order. (g) For avoidance of doubt, duty-free de minimis treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321 shall not be available for the articles described in subsection (a) of this section. (h) Any prior Presidential Proclamation, Executive Order, or other presidential directive or guidance related to trade with Mexico that is inconsistent with the direction in this order is hereby terminated, suspended, or modified to the extent necessary to give full effect to this order. (i) The articles described in subsection (a) of this section shall exclude those encompassed by 50 U.S.C. 1702(b). Sec. 3. (a) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall regularly consult with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security on the situation at our southern border. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall inform the President of any circumstances that, in the opinion of the Secretary of Homeland Security, indicate that the government of Mexico has taken adequate steps to alleviate the illegal migration and illicit drug crisis through cooperative actions. Upon the President’s determination of sufficient action to alleviate the crisis, the tariffs described in section 2 of this order will be removed. (b) The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security shall recommend additional action, if necessary, should the government of Mexico fail to take adequate steps to alleviate the illegal migration and illicit drug crises through cooperative enforcement actions. Sec. 4. The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Commerce, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of Homeland Security may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of Homeland Security. All agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order. Sec. 5. The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency under IEEPA declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)). Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.THE WHITE HOUSE, February 1, 2025.
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that the sustained influx of synthetic opioids has profound consequences on our Nation, including by killing approximately two hundred Americans per day, putting a severe strain on our healthcare system, ravaging our communities, and destroying our families. Synthetic opioid overdose is the leading cause of death for people aged 18 to 45 in the United States. During my first term, I took steps to end the direct flow of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids from the People’s Republic of China (PRC) to the United States. Since then, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), which exerts ultimate control over the government and enterprises of the PRC, has subsidized and otherwise incentivized PRC chemical companies to export fentanyl and related precursor chemicals that are used to produce synthetic opioids sold illicitly in the United States. Furthermore, the PRC provides support to and safe haven for PRC-origin transnational criminal organizations (TCOs) that launder the revenues from the production, shipment, and sale of illicit synthetic opioids. These PRC-origin TCOs coordinate and communicate using PRC social media software applications in the conduct of their business. Many PRC-based chemical companies also go to great lengths to evade law enforcement and hide illicit substances in the flow of legitimate commerce. Some of the techniques employed by these PRC-based companies to conceal the true contents of the parcels and the identity of the distributors include the use of re-shippers in the United States, false invoices, fraudulent postage, and deceptive packaging. While more than 500,000 pounds of drugs have been seized at the southern border each of the last 3 fiscal years, in addition, more than 42,000 pounds of drugs have been seized at the northern border each year on average over the last 3 years. Illicit drugs kill tens of thousands of Americans each year, including 75,000 deaths per year attributed to fentanyl alone. The influx of these drugs to our Nation threatens the fabric of our society. The PRC plays a central role in this challenge, not merely by failing to stem the ultimate source of many illicit drugs distributed in the United States, but by actively sustaining and expanding the business of poisoning our citizens. The flow of contraband drugs like fentanyl to the United States through illicit distribution networks has created a national emergency, including a public health crisis in the United States, as outlined in the Presidential Memorandum of January 20, 2025 (America First Trade Policy), Proclamation 10886 of January 20, 2025 (Declaring a National Emergency at the Southern Border of the United States), and Executive Order 14157 of January 20, 2025 (Designating Cartels and Other Organizations as Foreign Terrorist Organizations and Specially Designated Global Terrorists). Despite multiple attempts to resolve this crisis at its root source through bilateral dialogue, PRC officials have failed to follow through with the decisive actions needed to stem the flow of precursor chemicals to known criminal cartels and shut down the money laundering TCOs. The PRC implements the most sophisticated domestic surveillance network coupled with the most comprehensive domestic law enforcement apparatus in the world. The PRC also routinely exerts extraterritorial reach across the globe to threaten, harass, and suppress what it views as political dissent. As such, the CCP does not lack the capacity to severely blunt the global illicit opioid epidemic; it simply is unwilling to do so. Immediate action is required to address the national emergency I declared and to finally end this emergency, including the public health crisis caused by opioid use and addiction, which will not happen until the full compliance and cooperation of the PRC government is assured.I hereby determine and order: Section 1. (a) As President of the United States, my highest duty is the defense of the country and its citizens. I will not stand by and allow our citizens to be poisoned, our laws to be trampled, our communities to be ravaged, or our families to be destroyed. I previously declared a national emergency with respect to the grave threat to the United States posed by the influx of illegal aliens and drugs into the United States in Proclamation 10886. Pursuant to the NEA, I hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in that proclamation to cover the failure of the PRC government to arrest, seize, detain, or otherwise intercept chemical precursor suppliers, money launderers, other TCOs, criminals at large, and drugs. In addition, this failure to act constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial part outside the United States, to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. I hereby declare and reiterate a national emergency under the NEA and IEEPA to deal with that threat. This national emergency requires decisive and immediate action, and I have decided to impose, consistent with law, ad valorem tariffs on articles that are products of the PRC as set forth in this order. In doing so, I invoke my authority under section 1702(a)(1)(B) of IEEPA, and specifically find that action under other authority to impose tariffs is inadequate to address this unusual and extraordinary threat. Sec. 2. (a) All articles that are products of the PRC, as defined by the Federal Register notice described in section 2(d) of this order (the Federal Register notice), shall be, consistent with law, subject to an additional 10 percent ad valorem rate of duty. Such rate of duty shall apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 4, 2025, except that goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after such time that were loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading or in transit on the final mode of transport prior to entry into the United States before 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 1, 2025, shall not be subject to such additional duty, only if the importer certifies to U.S. Customs and Border Protection within the Department of Homeland Security as specified in the Federal Register notice. (b) The rates of duty established by this order are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, or charges applicable to such imported articles. (c) Should the PRC retaliate against the United States in response to this action through import duties on United States exports to the PRC or similar measures, the President may increase or expand in scope the duties imposed under this Executive Order to ensure the efficacy of this action. (d) In order to establish the duty rate on imports of articles that are products of the PRC, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall determine the modifications necessary to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) in order to effectuate the objectives of this order consistent with law and shall make such modifications to the HTSUS through notice in the Federal Register. The modifications made to the HTSUS by this notice shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 4, 2025, except as otherwise noted in subsection 2(a) of this section, and shall continue in effect until such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or terminated. (e) Articles that are products of the PRC, except those that are eligible for admission under “domestic status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.43, which are subject to the duties imposed by this order and are admitted into a United States foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 4, 2025, except as otherwise noted in subsection 2(a) of this section, must be admitted as “privileged foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41. Such articles will be subject upon entry for consumption to the rates of duty related to the classification under the applicable HTSUS subheading in effect at the time of admittance into the United States foreign trade zone. (f) No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties imposed pursuant to this order. (g) For avoidance of doubt, duty-free de minimis treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321 shall not be available for the articles described in subsection (a) of this section. (h) Any prior Presidential Proclamation, Executive Order, or other presidential directive or guidance related to trade with the PRC that is inconsistent with the direction in this order is hereby terminated, suspended, or modified to the extent necessary to give full effect to this order. (i) The articles described in subsection (a) of this section shall exclude those encompassed by 50 U.S.C. 1702(b). Sec. 3. (a) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall regularly consult with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, the Attorney General, and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security on the situation regarding the PRC. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall inform the President of any circumstances that, in the opinion of the Secretary of Homeland Security, indicate that the PRC government has taken adequate steps to alleviate the opioid crisis through cooperative actions. Upon the President’s determination of sufficient action to alleviate the crisis, the tariffs described in section 2 of this order will be removed. (b) The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, shall recommend additional action, if necessary, should the PRC fail to take adequate steps to alleviate the illicit drug crisis through cooperative enforcement actions. Sec. 4. The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Commerce, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of Homeland Security may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of Homeland Security. All executive departments and agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order. Sec. 5. The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, the Attorney General, and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency under IEEPA declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)). Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 1, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that the International Criminal Court (ICC), as established by the Rome Statute, has engaged in illegitimate and baseless actions targeting America and our close ally Israel. The ICC has, without a legitimate basis, asserted jurisdiction over and opened preliminary investigations concerning personnel of the United States and certain of its allies, including Israel, and has further abused its power by issuing baseless arrest warrants targeting Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Former Minister of Defense Yoav Gallant. The ICC has no jurisdiction over the United States or Israel, as neither country is party to the Rome Statute or a member of the ICC. Neither country has ever recognized the ICC’s jurisdiction, and both nations are thriving democracies with militaries that strictly adhere to the laws of war. The ICC’s recent actions against Israel and the United States set a dangerous precedent, directly endangering current and former United States personnel, including active service members of the Armed Forces, by exposing them to harassment, abuse, and possible arrest. This malign conduct in turn threatens to infringe upon the sovereignty of the United States and undermines the critical national security and foreign policy work of the United States Government and our allies, including Israel. Furthermore, in 2002, the Congress enacted the American Servicemembers’ Protection Act of 2002 (22 U.S.C. 7421 et seq.) to protect United States military personnel, United States officials, and officials and military personnel of certain allied countries against criminal prosecution by an international criminal court to which the United States is not party, stating, “In addition to exposing members of the Armed Forces of the United States to the risk of international criminal prosecution, the Rome Statute creates a risk that the President and other senior elected and appointed officials of the United States Government may be prosecuted by the International Criminal Court.” (22 U.S.C. 7421(9)). The United States unequivocally opposes and expects our allies to oppose any ICC actions against the United States, Israel, or any other ally of the United States that has not consented to ICC jurisdiction. The United States remains committed to accountability and to the peaceful cultivation of international order, but the ICC and parties to the Rome Statute must respect the decisions of the United States and other countries not to subject their personnel to the ICC’s jurisdiction, consistent with their respective sovereign prerogatives. The United States will impose tangible and significant consequences on those responsible for the ICC’s transgressions, some of which may include the blocking of property and assets, as well as the suspension of entry into the United States of ICC officials, employees, and agents, as well as their immediate family members, as their entry into our Nation would be detrimental to the interests of the United States. I therefore determine that any effort by the ICC to investigate, arrest, detain, or prosecute protected persons, as defined in section 8(d) of this order, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States, and I hereby declare a national emergency to address that threat. I hereby determine and order: Section 1. (a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:(i) the person listed in the Annex to this order; and(ii) any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General:(A) to have directly engaged in any effort by the ICC to investigate, arrest, detain, or prosecute a protected person without consent of that person’s country of nationality;(B) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity in subsection (a)(ii)(A) of this section or any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or(C) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order. Sec. 2. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to address the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order. Sec. 3. The prohibitions in section 1(a) of this order include: (a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order; and (b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person. Sec. 4. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1 of this order, as well as immediate family members of such aliens, or aliens determined by the Secretary of State to be employed by, or acting as an agent of, the ICC, would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except where the Secretary of State determines that the entry of the person into the United States would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary of State so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person’s entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives. In exercising this responsibility, the Secretary of State shall consult with the Secretary of Homeland Security on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). The Secretary of State shall have the responsibility for implementing this section pursuant to such conditions and procedures as the Secretary of State has established or may establish pursuant to Proclamation 8693. Sec. 5. Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the President a report on additional persons that should be included within the scope of section 1 of this order. Sec. 6. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited. Sec. 7. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof. Sec. 8. For the purposes of this order: (a) the term “person” means an individual or entity; (b) the term “entity” means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization; (c) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including a foreign branch, subsidiary, or employee of such entity), or any person lawfully in the United States; (d) the term “protected person” means:(i) any United States person, unless the United States provides formal consent to ICC jurisdiction over that person or becomes a state party to the Rome Statute, including:(A) current or former members of the Armed Forces of the United States;(B) current or former elected or appointed officials of the United States Government; and(C) any other person currently or formerly employed by or working on behalf of the United States Government; and(ii) any foreign person that is a citizen or lawful resident of an ally of the United States that has not consented to ICC jurisdiction over that person or is not a state party to the Rome Statute, including:(A) current or former members of the armed forces of such ally of the United States;(B) current or former elected or appointed government officials of such ally of the United States; and(C) any other person currently or formerly employed by or working on behalf of such a government; (e) the term “ally of the United States” means:(i) a government of a member country of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization; or(ii) a government of a “major non-NATO ally,” as that term is defined by section 2013(7) of the American Servicemembers’ Protection Act of 2002 (22 U.S.C. 7432(7)); (f) the term “immediate family member” means a spouse or child; (g) the term “alien” has the meanings given to the term in section 101(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(3)); and (h) the term “foreign person” means a person that is not a United States person. Sec. 9. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to section 1 of this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order. Sec. 10. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All executive departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order. Sec. 11. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)). Sec. 12. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. ANNEX 
Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump took decisive action to protect critical American industries by restoring a 25% tariff on steel imports and elevating the tariff to 25% on aluminum imports — building on the successful tariffs from his first term, which have since been undermined by loopholes and exemptions. The moves were quickly met with praise from industry, unions, and lawmakers: Steel Manufacturers Association President Philip K. Bell: “The steel industry in America faces serious threats from foreign actors that seek to destroy domestic production. China and other countries routinely violate trade laws and dump heavily subsidized steel products into the United States at the expense of American workers. By imposing a 25 percent tariff on steel imports, President Trump is leveling the playing field for American manufacturers and workers and helping America defeat direct threats to our jobs.” United Steelworkers President David McCall: “Our union welcomes President Donald Trump’s efforts to contain the global overcapacity that has for too long enabled bad actors like China to flood the global market with its unfairly traded products, resulting in surging imports into the United States, especially from Mexico.” Aluminum Association President Charles Johnson: “We appreciate President Trump’s continued focus on strong trade actions to support the aluminum industry in the United States. During his first term the president was early to recognize the genuine threat that non-market actors pose to U.S. manufacturing industries like ours … Today, there is not enough smelting capacity in the United States to supply the growing aluminum industry with the input materials it needs.” American Iron and Steel Institute President Kevin Dempsey: “We look forward to working closely with the President and his administration to implement a robust and reinvigorated trade agenda to address the many foreign market-distorting policies and practices that create an unlevel playing field for American steelmakers.” American Primary Aluminum Association President Mark Duffy: “Today is a great day for the U.S. aluminum industry. Unfair trade practices have devastated the domestic aluminum industry and President Trump’s actions today will protect thousands of American workers and their families.” Coalition for a Prosperous America Chairman Zach Mottl: “President Trump’s decision to implement global tariffs is a critical step toward restoring stability to American industry, safeguarding domestic production, and ensuring these critical sectors are not harmed by a surge of imports. The only way to rebuild domestic industrial capacity is through strong and enforceable trade policies, and these tariffs are a major step in the right direction.” Nucor Corporation President Leon Topalian: “Nucor strongly commends the actions taken today by President Trump to reimpose tariffs on all steel imports. America’s national security depends on a robust and healthy American steel industry, which continues to be harmed by massive global steel overcapacity and the resulting surge of illegally dumped and subsidized imports from around the world. Many of our trading partners have taken advantage of our open market for far too long and have intentionally circumvented our trade laws or allowed other bad actors to transship illegally dumped and subsidized steel. The President’s actions will help level the playing field for American steel producers.” Energy Fair Trade Coalition Executive Director Bret Manley: “President Trump’s bold leadership will strengthen the backbone of America – our steel and aluminum industry. E-FTC is proud to support initiatives that will level the playing field, foster domestic job growth, and promote fair reciprocal trade.” Century Aluminum Company CEO Jesse Gary: “We strongly support today’s Executive Order from President Donald J. Trump imposing a 25% tariff to stop the flood of aluminum imports into the United States. President Trump’s decisive action will protect national security and help level the playing field for America’s aluminum workers. On behalf of our employees, I thank President Trump for putting America first and strengthening the Section 232 tariffs, which will help drive the resurgence of domestic aluminum production.” Lowell Iron and Steel Company President Dennis Scanell: “The tariffs, thank God they’re coming … Maybe this evens the playing field for us, but this hits right at home. There’s no way we can compete with Canada.” America First Works: “President Trump promised to put America First and make our nation wealthy again; that is exactly what tariffs do. In his first term, President Trump’s bold trade policies created over 4,000 new American jobs and higher wages for hardworking patriots. Foreign nations will no longer be able to take advantage of the United States. If they don’t like the tariffs, they can come to the table and make a deal. In fact, that is what President Trump does best. China will no longer exploit trade loopholes to undermine American workers. Now is the time to stand strong, fight for fair trade, and put America FIRST where it belongs!” Sen. Jim Banks (R-IN): “Too many politicians in Washington take our domestic steel industry for granted. That hurts our workers and disrespects our history.” Sen. John Kennedy (R-LA): “If you have a high tariff on our product, and we have a low tariff on your product, we ought to level them out. That just seems fair to me.” Sen. Roger Marshall (R-KS): “President Trump is a leader who brokers deals that put AMERICAN workers first. The days of unfair, one-sided trade deals that let foreigners take advantage of our country are over. The sky is not falling. @POTUS is protecting our Steel and Aluminum industry workers — and in the end, America will have the upper hand. As it should be.” Sen. Tim Scott (R-SC): “President Trump’s approach to tariffs is designed with the long-term benefits of American consumers and national security in mind. By prioritizing fair trade policies and a balanced approach to tariffs, we’ll secure the economic prosperity of American workers across the country.” Sen. Tommy Tuberville (R-AL): “The media is in full meltdown mode after President Trump imposed duties and retaliatory tariffs this week on countries who have been ripping us off for decades. Both aluminum and steel are critical to our national security — and we make some of the best in the world right here at home. President Trump’s strategic tariffs will strengthen and revitalize our nation’s economy by making sure our trade deals are fair to taxpayers and the American worker.” Majority Whip Tom Emmer (R-MN): “President @realDonaldTrump is a master negotiator, especially when it comes to tariffs. Don’t just take my word for it — even Biden’s own commerce secretary admitted that the tariffs President Trump placed on foreign steel and aluminum during his first term were effective.” Chairwoman Lisa McClain (R-MI): “Millions of Americans are cheering for @POTUS’s tariff negotiations. He has proven his effectiveness in this arena time and time again. This will be no different. He is sending a message to the world. Compete fairly, or pay the price.” Rep. Jason Smith (R-MO): “President Trump is wasting no time moving forward with his America First trade policy. The days of the United States allowing our trading partners to steam roll us are over. President Trump successfully used tariffs in the past to grow our economy and protect American jobs. He imposed steel and aluminum tariffs in 2018, and now he is eliminating exceptions countries like China have used to circumvent them. I look forward to continuing to work with @POTUS to put America First and hold our trading partners accountable.” Rep. Andrew Clyde (R-GA): “President Trump is sending a loud and clear message: America is DONE letting foreign countries undercut our economy. Once again, he’s delivering on his promise to PUT AMERICA FIRST!” Rep. Carlos Gimenez (R-FL): “President Trump is ABSOLUTELY RIGHT to tariff & combat Communist #China!” Rep. Diana Harshbarger (R-TN): “Unfair trade practices have led to our nation being on the wrong end of too many bad deals. That’s coming to an end. President Trump is taking action to protect America’s steel and aluminum industries with his latest executive order, continuing to put America first.” Rep. Dan Meuser (R-PA): “President @realDonaldTrump is taking action to protect the American steel industry by closing loopholes that allow other countries to bypass U.S. tariffs through Mexico and Canada. This move will strengthen domestic production and encourage critical investment in U.S. Steel.” Rep. Maria Elvira Salazar (R-FL): “Trading with the United States is a privilege, not a right. President Trump’s America First trade policy will advance our priorities abroad and grow prosperity at home!” Rep. Keith Self (R-TX): “President Trump KEEPS HIS PROMISES! @realDonaldTrump is delivering on his promise to rebalance trade from unfair foreign competition. In the Golden Age, we are building a stronger America.”
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Purpose and Policy. The previous administration has embedded deeply unpopular, inflationary, illegal, and radical practices within every agency and office of the Federal Government. The injection of “diversity, equity, and inclusion” (DEI) into our institutions has corrupted them by replacing hard work, merit, and equality with a divisive and dangerous preferential hierarchy. Orders to open the borders have endangered the American people and dissolved Federal, State, and local resources that should be used to benefit the American people. Climate extremism has exploded inflation and overburdened businesses with regulation. To commence the policies that will make our Nation united, fair, safe, and prosperous again, it is the policy of the United States to restore common sense to the Federal Government and unleash the potential of the American citizen. The revocations within this order will be the first of many steps the United States Federal Government will take to repair our institutions and our economy. Sec. 2. Revocation of Orders and Actions. The following executive actions are hereby revoked: Sec. 3. Implementation. (a) To effectuate the revocations described in section 2 of this order, the heads of each agency shall take immediate steps to end Federal implementation of unlawful and radical DEI ideology. (b) The Director of the Domestic Policy Council (DPC) and the Director of the National Economic Council (NEC) shall review all Federal Government actions taken pursuant to the orders, memoranda, and proclamations listed in section 2 of this order and take necessary steps to rescind, replace, or amend such actions as appropriate. Within 45 days of the date of this order, the Director of the DPC and the Director of the NEC shall submit to the President an additional list of orders, memoranda, and proclamations issued by the prior administration that should be rescinded, as well as a list of replacement orders, memoranda, or proclamations, to increase American prosperity. (c) The National Security Advisor (NSA) shall immediately begin a complete and thorough review of all National Security Memoranda (NSMs) issued from January 20, 2021, through January 20, 2025, for harm to national security, domestic resilience, and American values. No later than 45 days from the date of this order, the NSA shall recommend to the President NSMs for rescission. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
Roosevelt Room 11:48 A.M. EST Q Mr. President, great to see you again. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. Thank you. Q How are you? THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. Q Elon Musk. MR. MUSK: Hi. Q Great to see you. MR. MUSK: Thanks. Thanks for having me. Q I’ve been reading a lot about you. I’ve got to start with this. So, he’s working for free with DOGE. He’s — he’s kind of put a lot of his life on hold, and you sued Twitter a number of years ago. You just made him pay you $10 million? THE PRESIDENT: That’s right. That’s right. Q That’s — that’s right. (Laughs.) THE PRESIDENT: Well, I sued — I sued from long before he had it. MR. MUSK: Yeah. Yeah. (Inaudible.) THE PRESIDENT: And, I mean, they really did a number on me, you know. And I sued, and they had to pay. You know, they paid $10 million settlement. Q You’re okay with that? MR. MUSK: I mean, I left it up to the lawyers and, you know, the team running Twitter. So, I said, “You guys do what you think is the right — makes sense.” Q I think it’s funny. THE PRESIDENT: I think — Q Because — THE PRESIDENT: — it’s a very low — I was looking to get much more money than that. Q So, you gave him a discount w- — in the lawsuit? THE PRESIDENT: He got — oh, he got a big discount. I don’t think he even knows about it. Q He’s become one of your — if you read and believe the media — he’s become one of your best friends. He’s working for free for you. He’s — MR. MUSK: Well, I love the president. I just want to be clear about that. Q You don’t care about that? MR. MUSK: I — no, I love the pr- — I — Q You love the president? MR. MUSK: I think — I think President Trump is a good man, and — and he’s, you know — I — I — THE PRESIDENT: That’s the way he said that. You know, there’s something nice about. (Laughter.) MR. MUSK: No, it is. I, you know — THE PRESIDENT: It is. MR. MUSK: Because, I mean, the president has been so — so unfairly attacked in the media. It’s truly outrageous. And I’ve sp- — at this point, spent a lot of time with the president, and not once have I seen him do something that was mean or cruel or — or wrong. Not once. Q You know, I’ve known him for 30 years. MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q And I’ve never seen anybody take as much as he’s taken. MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q And we’ve discussed this. And I’m like, “How do you deal with it?” THE PRESIDENT: Did have a choice? (Laughs.) I didn’t have a choice. Q Well, you would say that to me. I’m like, “What — what am I going to do? Worry about it?” THE PRESIDENT: That’s the only thing I can say. Q And, you know — and then culminating in two assassination attempts, which resulted in your endorsement. MR. MUSK: Well, I was going to do it anyway, but that was — Q That was it? MR. MUSK: — a precipitating event, yeah. THE PRESIDENT: That speeded it up a little bit? MR. MUSK: Yeah. Yeah. Q The day of the assassination? THE PRESIDENT: Nice. I didn’t know that. MR. MUSK: Yeah, it just — it sped it up, but I was going to do it anyway. Q Mr. President, with your indulgence, I’m convinced that people only know a little bit about Elon. I don’t think they know everything about Elon, because as I studied for and prepared for this interview, I learned a lot about you that I didn’t know. I think people will think about Tesla. Democrats are demonizing you and — and trying to make the country hate you. I just want people to understand you a little bit better, and the person that you’ve gotten to know and have now put a lot of trust in. THE PRESIDENT: Sure. Q And, you know, just — let’s go over a little bit of your bio, starting — MR. MUSK: Ah, okay. Q — with PayPal and how you became involved in Tesla and SpaceX and Neuralink — MR. MUSK: This — this could take a while. Q — and all these — MR. MUSK: I mean, you know, I — I think the way you think of me is, like, I’m a technologist and I try to make technologies that improve the world and make life better. Q You can show them your shirt. MR. MUSK: Yeah, and that’s why, like, my t-shirt says “tech support” — (laughter) — because I’m here to provide the president with — with technology support. And now, that — that may seem, like, well, is that a silly thing? But actually, it’s a very important thing, because the president will make these executive orders, which are very sensible and good for the country, but then they don’t get implemented, you know? So, if you take the — for example, all the funding for the migrant hotels, the president issued an executive order: Hey, we need to stop taking taxpayer money and — and paying for luxury hotels for illegal immigrants — Q It’s crazy. MR. MUSK: — which makes no sense. Like, obviously, people do not want their tax dollars going to — to fund high-end hotels for — for illegals. And yet, they were still doing that, even as late as last week. And so, you know, we went in there, and we were like, “This is in violation of the presidential executive order. It needs to stop.” So — so, what we’re — what we’re doing here is — is — one of the biggest functions of the DOGE team is just making sure that the presidential executive orders are actually carried out. And this is — I just want to point out, this is a very important thing, because the president is the elected representative of the people, so he’s representing the will of the people. And if the bureaucracy is fighting the will of the people and preventing the pres- — the president from implementing what the people want, then what we live in is a bureaucracy and not a democracy. Q Yeah. You — you’re both aware — you have to be keenly aware that the media and — and the punditry class — not that — you know, I think you’ve proven they have no power anymore, because they threw everything they had at you, and they didn’t win. And that was, you know, the New York Times, Washington Post, three networks, every late-night comedy show, two cable channels — they — they just threw — they threw everything — lawfare, weaponization. THE PRESIDENT: It’s true. Q And now I see they want you two to start — they want a divorce. They want you two to start hating each other. And they try — “Oh, President Elon Musk,” for example. You do know that they’re doing that to you? THE PRESIDENT: Oh, I see it all the time. They tried it, then they stopped. That wasn’t — they have many different things of hatred. Actually, Elon called me. He said, “You know they’re trying to drive us apart.” I said, “Absolutely.” You know, they said, “We have breaking news: Donald Trump has ceded control of the presidency to Elon Musk. President Musk will be attending a Cabinet meeting tonight at 8 o’clock.” (Laughter.) And I say — it’s just so obvious. They’re so bad at it. I used to think they were good at it. They’re actually bad at it, because if they were good at it, I’d never be president because I — I think nobody in history has ever gotten more bad publicity than me. I could do the greatest things; I get 98 percent bad publicity. I could do — outside of you and a few of your very good friends. It’s, like, the craziest thing. But you know what I have learned, Elon? The people are smart. They get it. MR. MUSK. Yeah. They do, actually. Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: They get it. They really see what’s happening. MR. MUSK: Yes. Q And at the end of this interview, I — what I would like is, I — I want people to know the relationship and know more about you. What is the relationship, Mr. President? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I respect him. I’ve always respected him. I never knew that he was right on certain things, and I’m usually pretty good at this stuff. He did Starlink. He did things that were so advanced and nobody knew what the hell they were. I can tell you, in North Carolina, they had no communication. They were wiped out. Those people were — you know, they had rivers in between — land that never saw water, all of a sudden, there was a river and a vicious — like, rapids. People were dying all over. They had no communication. They said, “Do you know Elon Musk?” And they didn’t really know I knew him. I said, “Yeah.” They said, “Could you get Starlink?” It’s, like, the first time I ever heard of it. I said, “What’s Starlink?” “A communication system that’s unbelievable.” Q I have it. THE PRESIDENT: And he — yeah. And he said — I called him, and I said, “Listen, they really need it.” And he got, like, thousands of units of this communication, and it saved a lot of lives. He got it immediately. And you can’t get it. I mean, you have to wait a long time to get it. But he got it to him immediately. And I said, “That’s pretty amazing.” And I didn’t even know he had it. We watch the rocket ships, and we watch Tesla. I think, you know, something that had an effect on me was when I saw the rocket ship come back and get grabbed like you grab a beautiful little baby. You grab your baby. It just — MR. MUSK: Just hug the rocket. THE PRESIDENT: I’d never seen — MR. MUSK: Everyone — right. Everyone needs (inaudible) — Q You hug the rocket. You hug the rocket. MR. MUSK: — (inaudible) rockets. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. No, but — and he said, “You know, you can’t really have a rocket program if you’re going to dump a billion dollars into the ocean every time you fly. You have to save it.” And he saved it. First time — Q That’s ever been done. THE PRESIDENT: — I’ve ever seen that done. Now nobody else can do it. If you look at the U.S., Russia, or China, they can’t do it, and they won’t be able to do it for a long time. He has the technology. So, you learn — I wanted somebody really smart to work with me, in terms of the country — a very important aspect. Because, I mean, he doesn’t talk about it. He’s actually a very good businessman. And when he talks about the executive orders — and this is probably true for all presidents: You write an executive order and you think it’s done, you send it out; it doesn’t get done. It doesn’t get implemented. They don’t implement it. They — maybe they’re from the last administration — and they are, in some cases. You try and get them out as fast as you can. But I could — as soon as he said that, I said, “You know, that’s interesting.” You write a beautiful executive — and you sign it and you assume it’s going to be done, but it’s not. What he does is he takes it, and with his hundred geniuses — he’s got some very brilliant young people working for him that dress much worse than him, actually — MR. MUSK: Yeah, they do. THE PRESIDENT: — they dress in just t-shirts. (Laughter.) You wouldn’t know they have 180 IQ. Q Wait. Wait. So, what — he’s — he’s your tech support? MR. MUSK: I — THE PRESIDENT: No, no. He is — MR. MUSK: I actually virtually am tech support. THE PRESIDENT: He’s much more than that. MR. MUSK: I actually am tech support, though. But that’s — THE PRESIDENT: But he gets it done. He’s a leader. He really is a — he gets it done. You get a lot of tech people, and you have people, they’re good with tech, but they — he gets it done. You know, I said, in real estate, you had guys that would draw beautiful renderings of a building, and they’d draw the rendering, it would be great, and you’d say, “Great. When are you starting?” But they were never able to get it built. They couldn’t get the finances. They couldn’t get the approvals. It would never get done. And then you have other guys that are able to get it done. You know, they could just get it done. I was in real estate. Same thing in this. He gets it done. So, when he said that — he said, “You know, when you sign these executive orders, a lot of them don’t get done, and maybe the most important ones,” and he would take that executive order that I’d signed, and he would have those people go to whatever agency it was — “When are you doing it? Get it done. Get it done.” And some guy that maybe didn’t want to do it, all of a sudden, he’s signing — he just doesn’t want to bothered. Q Does — do a lot of those executive orders have to be codified into law to — do you need the Republican Congress to follow up? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, and they will. A lot of them will be. Yeah. Q They will? THE PRESIDENT: Look, in the meantime, we have four years. The beauty is, we have four years. That’s why I like doing it right at the beginning. Because an executive order is great. I mean, the one problem — it’s both good and bad, because when they did all these executive orders, I’ve canceled most of them. They were terrible. I mean, we were going to go radical left, communist, okay? It was crazy. Their — MR. MUSK: Really crazy. THE PRESIDENT: — executive orders were so bad, if they ever got them codified, you’d never be able to break them. So, the damage that Biden has done to this country — and it’s not even Biden; it’s the people that circled him in the Oval Office, okay? — but the damage they did to this country, in terms of, let’s say, open borders — you know, there’s so many things, but open borders, where millions of people poured into our country, and hundreds of thousands of those people are criminals. They’re murderers. They’re drug dealers. They’re gang members. They’re people from prisons from all over the world. And we have a great guy, Tom Homan, and he is doing so incredibly. You saw the numbers. They’re down like 96 percent. Q Ninety-five percent. THE PRESIDENT: He is a phenomenal guy. And Kristi Noem is doing an unbelievable job. And he wanted her. He said, “She’s so tough.” And I said, “I don’t think of her as that way. You know, she’s very nice.” He said, “No, she’s so tough.” And she is. I see her with the horses. She’s riding the horse. Let’s — (laughter) — she’s great. But the team we have is — is really unbelievable. But those executive orders, I sign them, and now they get passed on to him and his group and other people, and they’re all getting done. We’re getting them done. Q Let me go back a little bit to your background, because — MR. MUSK: Sure. Q — it’s beyond impressive. You were the chief engineer, for example — you were an early believer in Tesla. You became the CEO and — and then the chief engineer, which was phenomenal. SpaceX, same thing, which is unbelievable. I mean, you were the first company — private company to send astronauts successfully into — into space, first private company to send astronauts into orbit. MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q That’s — that’s pretty deep. THE PRESIDENT: He’s going to go into orbit soon. Q Okay. MR. MUSK: (Laughs.) Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: No, he’s going to go to Mars. He’s going to fly on his — Q Starlink. MR. MUSK: At some point, yeah. Q As in (inaudible) — MR. MUSK: But they say — they always ask me, like, “Do you want to die on Mars?” And I say, “Well, yes, but not on impact.” (Laughter.) Q Star- — Starlink is in 100 countries. This is going to be hard. I feel like I’m interviewing two brothers here. MR. MUSK: You go ahead. Q Starshield, which could be used for national defense. MR. MUSK: Yeah, it is already being used for national defense. Q Then you have a — what is it called? Optimus, a part of Tesla. MR. MUSK: They’re a robot, yeah. Q A robotic arm. Then you have an AI arm. And then you have something that really fascinated me, and it’s called Neuralink. MR. MUSK: Yes. Q You might help the blind to see and people with spinal cord injuries that they — that they can recover, where in the past — how close is that to becoming a success? MR. MUSK: At Neuralink we’re — we’ve ha- — we’ve implanted Neuralink in three patients so far, who are quadriplegics, and it allows them to directly control their phone and computer just using their mind, just by thinking. It’s like — so, we call this product Telepathy, so you control your computer and phone just by thinking, and it’s possible to actually control the computer and phone faster than someone who has working hands. Then the next step would be to add a second Neuralink implant past the point where these — the neurons are damaged, so that somebody can walk again and so the pe- — they can have full-body functionality restored. And — THE PRESIDENT: And you like Bobby, right? MR. MUSK: I like Bobby, actually. Yeah. I — I supported Bobby Kennedy. I think he — you know, he’s unfairly maligned as someone who is anti-science. But I think he — he isn’t. He just wants to question the science, which is the essence of the science — the scientific method, fundamentally, is about always questioning the science. Q Well, they didn’t tell us the truth about COVID. MR. MUSK: Correct. Q That’s for sure. MR. MUSK: Yes. Q And we learned a lot with the Twitter files. And that just, then, raises a question. You’re the richest man in the world. You may not like that part. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q You’re pretty competitive. MR. MUSK: I mean, it’s neither here nor there. Q I’ve known you a long time. MR. MUSK: I don’t think it matters. Q But — THE PRESIDENT: That’s why I became president. Q — he’s on your team. THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible) — Q Well, that’s true. He can’t top that. THE PRESIDENT: He’s good. You know, I wanted to find somebody smarter than him. I searched all over. I just couldn’t do it. I couldn’t. I couldn’t. Q You really tried hard. THE PRESIDENT: I couldn’t find anyone smarter, right? So, we had to — we had to, for the country. Q But this is the thing — THE PRESIDENT: So, we settled on — we settled on this guy. MR. MUSK: Well, thanks for having me. THE PRESIDENT: (Laughs.) Yeah. Q So — MR. MUSK: I’m just trying to be useful here. Q But this is the interesting — but this is where we are as a so- — a society. And I — I hate to do this to you, but I’m going to do it anyway. You’re doing all of these things. At DOGE, nobody at DOGE gets paid a penny, correct? MR. MUSK: Well, actually, some people are federal employees, so they do. Q Oh, okay. MR. MUSK: Yeah. They’re (inaudible). But it’s fair to say that the software engineers at DOGE could be earning millions of dollars a year and instead of earning a small fraction of that as federal employees. Q Okay. So, just — THE PRESIDENT: And they’re very committed people. MR. MUSK: Yes. Q So — you’re — you’re committed to helping the blind see, people with spinal cord injuries recover. MR. MUSK: Yes. Q You’re committed to getting to Mars. You’re committed to rescue — you’re going to help rescue, next month, two astronauts that I think were abandoned. They — they dispute that in an interview. THE PRESIDENT: When are you — when are you getting them? MR. MUSK: At the — at the president’s request, we — or instruction, we are accelerating the return of the astronauts, which was postponed, kind of, to a ridiculous degree. THE PRESIDENT: They got left in space. Q They’ve been there. They were supposed to be there eight days. They’re there almost 300. THE PRESIDENT: Biden. MR. MUSK: They were put — Q Yeah. MR. MUSK: Yes, they were left up there for political reasons, which is not good. Q Okay, it’s not good. Now, if I had the weight and pressure of doing that successfully on my shoulders, I think I’d be, you know — but you — when we spoke before we did this interview, you were very confident. You think this will be a successful mission. MR. MUSK: Well, we don’t want to be complacent, but we have brought astronauts back from the space station many times before, and always with success. So, as long as we’re not complacent — THE PRESIDENT: When are they — when are you going to launch? MR. MUSK: I think it’s about — about four weeks to bring them back. Q About four weeks? MR. MUSK: Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: And you have the go-ahead. MR. MUSK: We’re being extremely cautious. Q Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: You now have the go-ahead. MR. MUSK: Yes. Well, thanks to you — THE PRESIDENT: They didn’t have the go-ahead with Biden. Q What’s that? THE PRESIDENT: He was going to leave him in space. I think he was going to leave them in space. Q Well, it’s like the (inaudible) — THE PRESIDENT: He considered it a — Q — growing up, lost in space. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, he didn’t want the publicity. Can you believe it? Q Unbelievable. And so — MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q — I want to echo something that the president said and then ask an overarching question. So, people in — get hit with Hurricane Helene, they have no communication with the outside world. You come to the rescue. You donated that, I believe? MR. MUSK: Yes. Yes. Q You donated to the people of — THE PRESIDENT: He saved a lot of lives. In North Carolina, he saved a lot of lives. Q And California, after the wildfires? THE PRESIDENT: California. But, I mean, in North Carolina, where they were really in trouble, they had no communication, people were dying. Q Nothing. THE PRESIDENT: They were dying of starvation. He saved a lot of lives in North Carolina. Q Okay. Now you’re going to rescue astronauts. And now — again, you do — you do all of this — I would think liberals would love the fact that you have the biggest electric vehicle company in the world. MR. MUSK: Yeah. I mean, I used to be adored by the left, you know. Q Not anymore. MR. MUSK: Le- — less so these days. Q He killed that, huh? MR. MUSK: I mean, less — THE PRESIDENT: I really (inaudible) — MR. MUSK: Well, I mean, this — this whole sort of, like, you know — it was — they call it, like, “Trump derangement syndrome.” And I didn’t — you know, you don’t realize how real this is until, like, it’s — you can’t reason with people. So, like, I was at a friend’s birthday party in L.A., just a birthday dinner, and it was, like, a nice, quiet dinner, and everything was — everyone was behaving normally. And then I happened to mention — this was before the election, like a month or two before — I happened to mention the president’s name, and it was like they got shot with a dart in the jugular that contained, like, the methamphetamine and rabies. Okay? (Laughter.) And they’re like, “Whyy?” And I’m, like, “What is wrong — like, guys, like” — you just can’t have, like, a normal conversation. And it’s like — it’s like they become completely irrational. Q He — he has no idea, if you’re friends with him — MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q — you pay a price. You know, it’s like, I walk into a restaurant in New York, and it’s like half the room gets daggers and they want to — MR. MUSK: The eye-daggers — eye-daggers level is insane. (Laughter.) I mean, there was, like — I had, like, some — some invitation because — so, I got invited to, like, so- — basically, a big, sort of, damn — damn event like that was — but I’d received the invitation, like, the beginning of last year and then — and I still attended, even after I’d endorsed President Trump, and I didn’t realize how profoundly that would affect, you know, how I was received. (Laughter.) I mean, I walk into the room and I’m getting just the dirty looks from — from everyone. Like, if looks could kill, I would have been dead several times over. Q But that was not — (laughter) — before Trump MR. MUSK: (Inaudible) — Q Before Trump: “BC” — MR. MUSK: — ashes on the floor. (Laughs.) Q — or “BT.” Before Trump, that never happened. Right? MR. MUSK: No. Q No. So — MR. MUSK: I — I just — doesn’t seem strange? Like, what — what is up with this total, like, madness? Q You’re smarter than me. Can you — I actually think that there’s a level of irrationality. It’s almost like a trigger and — MR. MUSK: It totally triggers. Q And it’s like — look, I — I’ve been on TV — this is my 29th year. I’ve been on radio 35 years. I will — I’ve gone hard in the paint to — for candidates that lost. MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q And guess what? I get over it. MR. MUSK. Sure. Yeah, yeah. Q And I just keep doing my show, and I just — you know, I come back to fight another day. So, here’s the big — then this is the million dollar or billion dollar — I’m among billionaires — question. So, you have all this going on and you stop, in a way — you’re still doing it — and you partner with him. And this is what you get for it from the Democrats. You get “nobody voted for Elon.” Well, nobody voted for any of your Cabinet nominees. Okay? “People are dying because of DOGE cuts.” I’ll give you a chance to respond to all that. “What DOGE is doing is illegal.” “Elon Musk is” — more street vernacular for a male body part. “It’s a constitutional crisis.” MR. MUSK: How c- — why — why are they reacting like this? Q Well, first of all, do you give a flying rip? Number one. And — MR. MUSK: Well, I guess we must be — if we’re the target, we’re doing something right. You know, if — like, they wouldn’t be complaining so much if they — we weren’t doing something useful, I think. What — all we’re really trying to do here is restore the will of the people through the president. And — and what we’re finding is there’s an unelected bureaucracy. Speaking of unelected, there’s a — there’s a vast federal bureaucracy that is implacably opposed to the — the president and the Cabinet. And you look at, say, D.C. voting. It’s 92 percent Kamala. Okay, so we’re in 92 percent Kamala. That’s a lot. Q Yeah. They don’t like me here either. MR. MUSK: I think about that number a lot. I’m like, 92 percent. That’s, basically, almost everyone. And so — but if — but how can you — if — if the will of the president is not implemented, and the president is representative of the people, that means the will of the people is not being implemented, and that means we don’t live in a democracy, we live in a bureaucracy. And so, I think what we’re seeing here is the — sort of, the thrashing of the bureaucracy as we try to restore democracy and the will of the people. Q You — MR. MUSK: Is this making sense? I mean — sorry. Q Y- — no, of course it does. I mean, to me, if you look at our framers and our founders — and you’ve really become a student of history, Mr. President, and we’ve ta- — we’ve had conversations both on air and off air — and if we talk about constitutional order or transformational change, nobody can argue that what’s happening here is going at the speed of light. But however, what were the principles of our framers and our founders? They wanted limited government, greater freedom for the people — and we’ll get to the specific cutting of waste, fraud, and abuse. That — that is your goal, is it not? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. And my goal was to get great people. And when you look at what this man has done, I mean, it was something — I knew him a little bit through the White House. Originally, I’d see him around a little bit. I didn’t know him before that, and I respected what he did. And he fought hard. You know, he was a — he was maybe questioned for a while. He was having some difficulties. It was not easy doing what he did. I mean, how many people have started a car company and made it really successful and made a better car where it’s, you know, beating these big companies that that’s all they do is cars? I mean, it’s really amazing the things that he’s done. But I didn’t know it as much then as now. I mean, the fruits have sort of taken hold. But I wanted great people, and he’s a great person. He’s an amazing person. He’s also a caring person. You know, he uses the word “care.” So, they sign a contract in a government agency, and it has three months. And the guy leaves that signed the contract, and nobody else is there, and they pay the contract for 10 years. So, the guy is getting checks for years and years and years, and he’s telling his family, obviously — maybe it was crooked, maybe he paid to get the contract, or maybe he paid that they didn’t terminate him. But, you know, we have contracts that go forever, and they’ve been going for years, and they’re supposed to end in three months or five months or two years or something, and they go forever. So, the guy is either crooked — you know, where he knew this was going to happen — or he’s crooked because he’s getting payments that he knows he shouldn’t be getting. MR. MUSK: Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: But they’re finding things like that. They’re finding things far worse than that. And they’re finding billions — and it will be hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of fraud. I say waste and abuse, but fraud, waste, and abuse. And he’s doing an amazing job. And he attracts a young, very smart type of person. I call them high-IQ individuals, and they are. They’re very high Q and — high IQ. And when they go in to see the people and talk to these people — you know, the people think they’re going to pull it over. They don’t. These guys are smart, and they love the country. You know, there’s a certain something. But he uses the word “care.” So, people have to care. Like, when I bought Air Force One — MR. MUSK: Exactly. THE PRESIDENT: — I negotiated the price. It was $5.7 billion, and I got it — I got them down $1.7 billion. Now they’re not building the plane fast enough. I mean, they’re actually in default — Boeing. They’re supposed to — Q When is it — THE PRESIDENT: They’ve been building this thing forever. I don’t know — Q This is the new Air Force One? THE PRESIDENT: — what’s going on. MR. MUSK: Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: We don’t build the way we used to build. You know, we used to build like a ship a day, and now to build a ship is, like, a big deal, and we’re going to get this country back on track. We could do it, but so many things — it takes so long to get things built and get things done. And a lot of it could be something we’ve been discussing. The regulators go in and they make it impossible to build. They make it very difficult to build anything, whether it’s a ship, a plane, or a building or anything. And some of them do it because they want to show how important they are. Some of them do it maybe because they think they’re right. They use the environment to stop progress and to stop things. It’s always the environment. “It’s an environmental problem.” It’s not an environmental problem at all. But they do a lot of things. And, by the way, speaking of that, Lee Zeldin is going to be fantastic in the position. So important. He could take 10 years to approve or disapprove something, or he could do it in a month. You know, just as good. Q Sure. THE PRESIDENT: And I think you’re going to see some fantastic — a fantastic job done by him. He’s a tremendous guy. Q Newt — you echoed something when I had just met you, and it was very similar to what Newt has been saying, that we’re — he brought this country to the dance. This is the opportunity to be transformational, and to have, I would argue, a — the most consequential presidency if we — if we’d really dig down and do something that had never been done before, and that is get rid of this bureaucracy. And I’m going — MR. MUSK: Yes. Q — to get to specifics. You say the same thing. It’s not done yet. MR. MUSK: Absolutely. Q And what did you mean by that? MR. MUSK: Well, I mean the — w- — winning the election is really the opportunity to fix the system. It is not fixing the system itself. So, it’s an opportunity to fix the system and to restore the power of democracy. And, you know, people — like, it’s funny how — how often it — you — when these attacks occur, the thing that they’re accusing the administration of is what they are guilty of. They’re saying that things are — are being done are unconstitutional, but what they are doing is unconstitutional. They are guilty of the crime of which they accuse us. THE PRESIDENT: That’s always the first thing they do. MR. MUSK: Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: “He’s in violation of the Constitution.” They don’t even know what they’re talking — well, they know. MR. MUSK: It’s absurd. THE PRESIDENT: It’s just a con job. It’s a big con job. And they’re so bad for the country, so dangerous and so bad. And the media is so bad. When I watch MSNBC, which I don’t watch much, but you have to watch the enemy on occasion, the level of arrogance and — and cheating and — they’re just horrible people. These are horrible people. Q They lie. THE PRESIDENT: These are horrible people. Q They tell conspiracy theories. THE PRESIDENT: They lie, and they start up with the Constitution. They couldn’t care less about the Constitution. CNN, likewise. I mean, I watched them asking questions with, you know, the hatred with the — why — I said, “What are you asking the question with such anger? You’re asking me a normal question.” But you see the bias. The bias is so incredible. Those two are bad. PBS is bad. AP is bad. CBS is terrible. I mean, CBS now — they changed an answer in Kamala. They asked her some questions. She answered them like, you know, a low-IQ person. The opposite of him — the absolute opposite. But she gave a horrible answer. They took the entire answer out, and they put another answer that she gave 20 minutes later into the — in- — as the answer. Q It was part of her word salad. THE PRESIDENT: I’ve never even heard of that be- — I thought I heard of it all. MR. MUSK: Right. Q That wh- — “60 Minutes” once — one — wanted to do an interview with me, and I said, “Live to tape.” MR. MUSK: Yeah, exactly. Q They said, “No.” And I said, “No” — MR. MUSK: Right. Q — “No deal.” MR. MUSK: Exactly. They can- — Q Like, this interview will — THE PRESIDENT: I’ve never even heard — you know, I’ve seen where they take a sentence off or something and they’ll do — but they — Q Sometimes you cut for time o- — THE PRESIDENT: No, no. They took the entire — this long, terrible statement that she made and put another. Nobody’s ever seen what’s happening. And, you know, the people that do all this complaining, they’re very dishonest people. MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q Yeah. I — I’m going to, just for the sake of saving time — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q — because I could spend — and I’ve done this on radio and TV, I — I can spend an hour finding the outrageous amounts of money being spent abroad, like USAID. MR. MUSK: Sure. Q And I do want to mention a couple, but I’m going to — MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q — scroll it and — MR. MUSK: Well — well, I guess, at a high level, I think it’s what the president mentioned earlier, which is that in order to save taxpayer money, it comes down to two things: competence and caring. And — THE PRESIDENT: That’s right. MR. MUSK: — and when — when president was shown the outrageous bill for the new Air Force One and — and then negotiated it down, if he had — if the president had not applied competence and caring, the price would have been 50 percent higher — literally, 50 percent higher. The president cared. The president was competent. The price was not 50 percent higher as the result. And so, when you add more competence and caring, you get a better deal for the American people. THE PRESIDENT: But we could take — we were talking about this yesterday. I could take — give me thousands of bills — any — I could pick any one of them, and I could — MR. MUSK: Yes, exactly. THE PRESIDENT: — take all thousand. And let’s say it’s a bill for $5,000 — just $5,000, and it’s done by some bureaucrat. And if he would say, “I’ll give you three. I don’t want to pay you five. It’s too high. I’ll give you three.” But they don’t do that. If a guy sends in a bill for $5,000, they pay $5,000. They expect to be cut. Everybody expects to be cut. When you send in a bill, you expect to be cut. They send in the bill higher, for the most part. This is true with lawyers, legal fees. When they send in legal fees, you — I can cut — I wish I had the time, I would save so — but I could cut these bills in half — much better than half. But you offer people a much lower number because you know they — they actually put fat — I’m not even saying it’s — it’s like a way of business. They put more on because they expect to be negotiated. When you send in a bill to the government, there’s nobody to negotiate. MR. MUSK: Yes. THE PRESIDENT: You send it a bill for $10,000, and they send you a check back for $10,000. If you would call them and said, “We’ll give you five.” “No, no, no. I need more than five.” “We’ll give you a five.” “I’m not going to pay any more than five.” “Make it six.” “No, I’m not going to make it six.” And you’ll settle for $5,500. You’ve just cut the bill almost in half, and it took, like, two minutes. When did that stop? But — Q (Inaudible) the art of the deal? THE PRESIDENT: — that’s caring. No, it’s not even the art of the deal. It’s caring. He uses the word — MR. MUSK: It’s — it’s competence and caring. THE PRESIDENT: — it’s caring. Q Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: It’s — it’s a certain competence, but I think it’s more caring. MR. MUSK: I — if you — THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible.) MR. MUSK: Actually, if you add either ingredient — either competence or caring — you’ll — you’ll get a better outcome. But it stands to reason — Q Right. People don’t want to do this (inaudible.) MR. MUSK: — that’s the reason that if you don’t have competency and you don’t have caring, you’re going to get a terrible deal. And the problem is that the American taxpayer has been — been getting a terrible deal, because — look at the last administration. Can you — can anyone — can any reasonable person say that last administration was either competent or caring? Q But they lied to us and said that Joe didn’t have a cognitive decline. MR. MUSK: They fully lied. Q They said the borders were closed. They said that the borders were secure. They said that — MR. MUSK: Right. Q You know, they said Obamacare would save — MR. MUSK: They flat out lied. Q They flat out lied — MR. MUSK: It was insane. Q — on many occasions. MR. MUSK: Yes. Q I tell my audience all the time: Don’t trust government. MR. MUSK: Yes. Q So, the — I want — as I scroll this information, and it’s — it’s — I’ll scroll a lot more than I’ll mention to both of you, and this is the cost savings. I want you — I want people at home to understand this part: The average American makes $66,000 a year. MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q Okay? We have $37 trillion in national debt. MR. MUSK: Yes. Q Now, all the money I’m about to mention and what we’re going to scroll on our screen — and all of this is going to foreign countries. It is not being spent here in America — MR. MUSK: Yes. Q — for better schools, law and order. MR. MUSK: I — I think the average taxpaying American should be mad as hell because their tax money is being poorly spent. Q I’m mad. It’s stealing from — MR. MUSK: It’s a — it’s an outrage — Q — our kids and grandkids. MR. MUSK: Yes, and the — and people — THE PRESIDENT: And a lot of fraud, Sean. A lot of fraud. Q Yes. THE PRESIDENT: And a lot of kickbacks. They’re sending money out. They’re not that stupid. These people aren’t that stupid. They’re sending for transgender — something having to do with the opera, and they’re sending out $7 million — MR. MUSK: (Laughs.) Literally. THE PRESIDENT: — $7 million. (Inaudible) — Q You just stole my next line. I can’t believe that. THE PRESIDENT: No, it’s incredible. Q I was going to mention that. THE PRESIDENT: No, but it’s incredible: $7 million. Now, you know they — they’re not so stupid. They’re sending all this money. They expect to get a lot of it back. And that’s what happens. Q Okay. So, let’s go through it. MR. MUSK: Yes, they’re — a bunch of — Q So, for the average person at home — MR. MUSK: — this stuff is round-tripping. To the president’s point, they’ll — they’ll make it sound like it’s going to help some people in a foreign country, but then they — then they get kickbacks. Q All right. Let me go to the ne- — to the fir- — MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q — to the second question first. I want to know, because people like Joni Ernst, and — and House — MR. MUSK: Yeah, Joni — Joni Ernst has been — Q They tried to get — MR. MUSK: — has tried for a long time, and she’s actually got a lot of good data. Senator Ernst has been really helpful, actually. Q Okay, but they — they actually hide what the real purpose of the spending is. MR. MUSK: That’s true. Q In other words, they — and — and h- — this is a question: How did you decipher? It will say, “Humanitarian blah, blah, blah in Serbia or Afghanistan.” We’ve been giving money to China for crying out loud, which I think is nuts. MR. MUSK: Well, we’re giving money to the Taliban. Q Money to the Taliban? MR. MUSK: Like a lot. Q All right. So — MR. MUSK: (Laughs.) I’m like, for what? Q But they — MR. MUSK: I — I want to see pictures of what they did. Q But they try to obscure it, and — and — but then you got to the bottom line, which is what I’m now scrolling on the screen — MR. MUSK: Yes. Q — and that is: $20 million on a Sesame Street show in Iraq; $56 million to boost tourism in Tunisia and Egypt; $40 million to build schools in Jordan; $11 million to tell the Vietnamese to stop burning trash; $45 million for DEI scholarships in Burma; $520 million for consultant-driven ESG investments in Africa; DEI programs in Serbia; the president’s favorite — I’m sure you — you love that taxpayer money was spent on a DEI musical in Ireland or a chan- — transgender opera in Colombia or a — MR. MUSK: If I could, like, it sounds like — Q — transgender comic book in Peru. MR. MUSK: It sounds like — it sounds like how can these things be real? But this is actually what was done. Q Okay. The — I — MR. MUSK: It — it sounds like a comedy sketch or something. It’s like — Q I have 20 pages of this. MR. MUSK: Right. It’s not — the list is a mile long. THE PRESIDENT: The one thing you didn’t mention, the media. The media is getting millions of dollars. MR. MUSK: Yes. THE PRESIDENT: Now, they say Politico, which is a radical left — Q Subscriptions. THE PRESIDENT: — you know, garbage magazine or — or program. I guess they have magazine and they have some — some media of all types. $8 million. I hear the New York Times got a lot. I hear they get subscriptions — where they have subscriptions but maybe the paper is not sent. I have no idea if that’s true or not, but it’s — they call it subscriptions. Lots of subscri- — to different media, not just the Times — maybe the Times, and maybe not the Times. Q A million dollars in subscriptions is a lot. THE PRESIDENT: Well — but — but millions of dollars going to media that’s radical-left, crooked, dishonest media. MR. MUSK: Well — well, Reuters — this is actually really wild: Reuters got like — something like $10 million for something that was literally titled “mass disinformation campaign.” Q Well — MR. MUSK: That was on the purchase order. Well, I — I thought that was a little bold. (Laughs.) Q I will tell you what was bold is when you released — MR. MUSK: I’m like — Q — the Twitter files. MR. MUSK: — shouldn’t you at least try to call it something else? (Laughs.) Q The Twitter files — how they targeted him; how Twitter, at the time, worked closely with the FBI, the CIA; and, even before the release of Hunter’s very real laptop, they were feeding them disinformation. That — MR. MUSK: Absolutely. Q — you found all that out. MR. MUSK: Well, I think — Q That’s called transparency, right? THE PRESIDENT: The FBI has to be rehabbed. The FBI — MR. MUSK: Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: What’s happened with the FBI and the DOJ is just — their — their stock has gone way down. I mean, their reputation is shot. Q And intelligence. THE PRESIDENT: And I think Pam is going to do great. I think Kash is going to do great. I think they have to do great or we have a problem. But when you look at what they did, the raid of Mar-a-Lago — the raid of Mar-a-Lago — you look at what they did, their reputation is shot. Q It is. What — you were going to say, Elon? MR. MUSK: Well, no, I was going to say that I think probably a — like, a lot of people still — Q How — how did you find (inaudible)? MR. MUSK: — still believe, like, the Russia hoax, even though you’ve done a lot to combat that. The — you know, the — the Steele dossier was an incre- — a massive scam that was concocted by Hillary Clinton and her — her campaign. Q She bought and paid it — for it — MR. MUSK: Right. Q — Russian disinformation. MR. MUSK: There was — it was — the — people still think the — the Russia hoax is real. Like a lot of people s- — because they never — they never heard the counterpoint. I mean — I mean, a bunch of people should be in prison for that. That was a — that was outrageous election interference, creating a fake Russia hoax. Q How much — if you had to put a number on it, how much do you think you’ve identified waste, fraud, abuse, corruption at this point? And again, we’ve been — we’re going to be scrolling this throughout the program. MR. MUSK: Well, the — the overall goal is to try to get a trillion dollars out of the deficit. And if we — if we — if the deficit is not brought under control, America will go bankrupt. This is a very important thing for people to understand. A country is no different from an individual, in that if an individual overspends, an individual can go bankrupt, and so can a country. And — and the out- — the massive waste, fraud, and abuse that has been going on, which is leading to a $2-trillion-a-year deficit, that — that’s what the president was handed on Jan. 20th, a $2 trillion deficit. It’s insane. Q For this fiscal year? THE PRESIDENT: Two trill- — yeah. We inherited it. MR. MUSK: Two — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. And inflation is back. I’m only here for two and a half weeks. Q That was January — THE PRESIDENT: Inflating is back — Q — you were there for a week. THE PRESIDENT: No, think of it, inflation is back. And they said, “Oh, Trump infla-” — I had nothing to do with it. These people have — have run the country. They spent money like nobody has ever spent. They were — they were given $9 trillion to throw out the window — $9 trillion, and they spent it on the Green New Scam, I call it. It’s the greatest scam in the history of the country. One of them. We have a lot of them, I guess. But one of them. Q Well — THE PRESIDENT: Dollar-wise, probably — Q — and DEI — THE PRESIDENT: — it is. Q — and wokeism — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, yeah. Q — and transgenderism — THE PRESIDENT: Well, that’s all part of it. Yeah. Q — and LGBTQ+. MR. MUSK: Yes. Q And, by the way, not in America — other countries, not here. THE PRESIDENT: You know, the amazing thing is when you see, like, the teaching of DEI: $9 million. How do you spend $9 million to teach no matter what it is? MR. MUSK: Right. THE PRESIDENT: You could teach physics. MR. MUSK: Exactly. Totally. THE PRESIDENT: You could go to MIT for a lot less. MR. MUSK: It’s (inaudible) expensive. (Laughs.) Expensive. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, the teaching — MR. MUSK: Expensive BS. THE PRESIDENT: — of DEI. Q Well, I think it would be better spent on — THE PRESIDENT: No, it’s a kickback. It’s got to be a kickback. Nobody is that — nobody could do that. Nobody is — Q Well, it — THE PRESIDENT: Nobody is giving — to assess the dialog of an audience coming out of a theater: $4 million. Q How much do you believe, Elon, you’ve identified in — in waste, fraud, abuse, corruption now? And how much — MR. MUSK: Well — Q — do you anticipate you will? MR. MUSK: Sure. Well, the — I — I think — THE PRESIDENT: One percent. MR. MUSK: (Laughs.) THE PRESIDENT: No, because it’s so massive. It’s — this is — MR. MUSK: Yeah, exactly. THE PRESIDENT: — huge money. Huge money. Look — Q So, what we’ve found now is one percent? MR. MUSK: Well, we’ve j- — we’ve just gotten started here. THE PRESIDENT: As good as they are, they’re not going to find some contract that was crooked — you know, crooked as hell. And, I mean, there’s going to be so much that isn’t found. But what is found — I think he’s going to find a trillion dollars. MR. MUSK: Yeah, I think so. THE PRESIDENT: But I think it’s a very small percentage compared to what it is. I mean, he could tell you about treasuries; he could tell you about a woman that worked for Biden that became a very wealthy woman while she was working for him. Right? MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q Yeah, I know who you’re talking about. MR. MUSK: I mean, there are some strange situations where people — where, you know, someone’s working for the government earning $200,000 a year, and then, suddenly, they’re worth tens of millions of dollars within a few years. Where’d the money come? Q How’d they earn it? MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q They have a private company on the side? MR. MUSK: We’re just curious. Like, can you — THE PRESIDENT: While they were working. MR. MUSK: Can you show us — because, like, in order to be worth tens of millions of dollars, you’d have to start a company, or you’ve got to get some kind — the compensation has got to come from somewhere. So, how does a civil servant with — earning $200,000 a year suddenly, within a span of a few years, be worth tens of millions dollars? Q W- — MR. MUSK: So, I just want to connect the dots here. Q All right, s- — MR. MUSK: Maybe there’s a legitimate explanation, but I don’t think so. (Laughter.) Q So, you know, and this gets to kind of the heart of where I am. I — I looked at your work, and I look at this amount of money, and I get angry. And I don’t get v- — I’m not an angry person. MR. MUSK: Sure. Q I don’t get angry. I get a- — I get annoyed sometimes, but I don’t get angry. And I did live paycheck to bay- — paycheck a part of my life. And I think of, you know, the working men and women in this country that the — 56 percent of which cannot afford a $1,000 emergency after four years of Harris and Biden. MR. MUSK: Sure. Q Okay? That is serious, you know, financial trouble. Or they’re putting bare necessities on credit cards. And I’m looking at this and I’m thinking, well, how much — when we — when all is said and done, we could have written a check or cut the taxes or fixed our schools — MR. MUSK: Yes. Yes. Q — or deported these illegals that we keep finding, known terrorists, cartel members, gang members. MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q And — and we’re not doing it. THE PRESIDENT: Sean, the saddest thing is they don’t talk about the individual lines. I could go on your show right now, I could get a list that I have on the beautiful Resolute Desk in the Oval Office, and it’s got 40 points, and all they are is the heading of what this money is. You don’t have to go deep into it, and you see it’s, you know, all different things and it’s so ridiculous. I mean, normally, when you look for fraud, you’re looking for one thing out of a hundred. Here, out of a hundred, 95 are going to be bad. I mean, they’re — and they’re so obvious just by the heading. But they never mention that. They only mention, “This is a violation of our Constitution. This is a” — the word they give, you know, it’s like a sound bite — “constitutional crisis.” It’s a new thing, “constitution-” — But they never mention about where the money is going. MR. MUSK: Yes. Exactly. THE PRESIDENT: And when people hear that — I had a very smart man, John Kennedy — he’s actually a very smart man. He said, “Sir, you should just go on television and just read the name of the topic that you’re giving all the money — just the topic that you’re giving this money to, and don’t say anything more,” and he’s right. MR. MUSK: Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: And I’ll do it at some point, you know, when — But they never talk about where the money is going. They just talk about, “It’s a constitutional crisis.” It’s so sad. And honestly, I think they’re bad people. I used to give them the benefit of the doubt, but you almost think they hate the country. I think they hate the country. They’re sick people. Q Remember, what they can’t — what they couldn’t accomplish at the ballot box, what they can’t accomplish legislatively, now they’re using the courts. MR. MUSK: Yes. Q And they c- — they’re trying to bury you in lawsuits. THE PRESIDENT: That’s right. You know the good news, though? They’ve lost their confidence. They’re not the same people. Q I think you’re right. THE PRESIDENT: They’re — they’re not the same people. This election was brutal for them. We won every swing state. We won by millions and millions of votes. We won everything. We — all 50 states went up — all 50. It’s never happened. Q Popular vote. THE PRESIDENT: Every one. All 50 states went up. They’ve lost their confidence. I see it. And they’re — they’re just swirling and twirling. They don’t know what the hell is happening. They’re much different. They’re just as mean, but they’re not getting to the point. Q Why do you invite them into the Oval Office nearly every day? MR. MUSK: (Laughs.) THE PRESIDENT: Well, the media — you’re talking about the media. Q Yeah, your friends in the media. THE PRESIDENT: The media — no, they’re — you know, the anger that — they ask questions so angry — a question — a normal question. I give them an answer. They — but they — I say, “Why are you so angry when you ask a question?” Just a standard question. And, I don’t know, there’s something — Q They haven’t had a- — they haven’t been allowed in that office for the last four years, and here you’re giving them access. Let me go to an area that I think is key, and — and you talked about this in recent interviews, and that is: We don’t need a Department of Education. Okay. And what some people are trying to do is stoke fears that, “Oh, my gosh, my kid is not going to get the money for education.” THE PRESIDENT: (Laughs.) Yeah. Q Or “grandma’s Social Security and Medicare.” This was a big promise of yours on the campaign trail. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Yeah. Q So, I really want to give you both an opportunity to assure the American people you will keep — that money will be allocated for students, but with higher standards. For example, I would assume associated with monies given or vouchers. THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible) so much and — and then Elon goes. But, look, Social Security won’t be touched — Q Won’t be touched. THE PRESIDENT: — other than if there’s fraud or something — we’re going to find it; it’s going to be strengthened — but won’t be touched. Medicare, Medicaid, none of that stuff is going to be touched. It’s just — Q Nothing. I want you to — THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible) don’t have to. Now, if there are illegal migrants in the system, we’re going to get them out of the system, and all of that fraud. But it’s not going to be touched. School — I want to bring school back to the states, so that Iowa, Indiana — all these places — Idaho, New Hampshire — there’s so many places, the states. I figure 35 really run well. And right now, it’s Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, China — China, can you imagine? — has top — top schools. We’re last. So, they have a list of 40 countries. We’re number 40. Usually we’re 38, 39, but last time, we were number 40. And what I say is you’ve got to give it back. So, it doesn’t work. I’ll tell you what we’re number one in: cost per pupil. We spend more money than any other country by far — it’s not even close — per pupil. Okay? So, we know it doesn’t work. So, we spend the most and we have the worst — right? — the worst result. When we give that — when we give that back to Indiana, when we give that b- — back to Iowa and back to a lot of the states that run well — they run well, a lot of them — 35, 37, 38 — now, you’re going to have 10 laggards, but you’re going to have 5 real laggards, but that’s going to be okay. Take New York — you give it to Westchester County, you give it to Suffolk County, you give it to Upstate New York, and you give it to Manhattan — but you give it to four or five subsections. Same thing in California. Los Angeles is going to be a problem, but you’re going to give it to places that run well. We can change education Now, school choice is important, but that will get care — taken care of automatically. We want to bring education back to the states. You will spend half the number. And I’m not even doing this — Q So, you’re leaning more towards grants not vouchers, like to parents? THE PRESIDENT: I’m not even — I’m not even doing this to save, but you will save. It will cost you much less money. You get a much better education. If you go to some of these states, you’ll be the equivalent of Norway, Sweden, Denmark — places that really have a good school system. You’ll have — those places will be the equivalent, and your overall numbers will get so much better. Q Do you want standards associated with the money? THE PRESIDENT: The only thing I want to do from — from Washington, D.C., is make sure they’re teaching English, reading, writing — Q Math and science. THE PRESIDENT: — and arithmetic. Okay? Q Science? Science might help. THE PRESIDENT: Okay. A little science. You know — Q Computers. THE PRESIDENT: — you’re not going to have much of a problem with that, but that’s it. Do you know, we have half the buildings — I mean, you look at Department of Education — MR. MUSK: It’s empty. THE PRESIDENT: Look at the real estate and the — MR. MUSK: Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: — the level. For what? To — to — I mean, for — what do they do? We have really bad educa- — the teachers — I love teachers. I respect teachers. And, by the way, there’s no reason why teachers can’t form a union. They can do whatever they want to do, if it’s back in the states. So, we’re not looking to hurt the teacher — I’m — I’m going to help the teachers. I think the teachers should be incentivized, because a good teacher is like a good scientist, is like a great doctor. MR. MUSK: Sure. THE PRESIDENT: It’s a valuable commodity. MR. MUSK: Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: I think they should be incentivized. MR. MUSK: Yes. THE PRESIDENT: So, I’m totally for the teachers. MR. MUSK: Absolutely. Q I interview a guy a lot on radio. He’s from Wichita, Kansas. And he started — THE PRESIDENT: Right. Q — as a medical doctor. Started Atlas.MD, and he’s now — he’s rolled it out nationwide. Concierge care, $50 a month, 24-hour access to a doctor. THE PRESIDENT: Right. Q You know, they use a lot of telemedicine now as part of it — very innovative. He negotiates directly with pharmaceutical companies. People — if they have high blood pressure, they walk out with their medicine. They have high cholesterol, they walk out with their medicine. And they pay pennies on the dollar. You mentioned — THE PRESIDENT: By the way, forms of that could be done. Q Forms of that? THE PRESIDENT: Forms of that could be done. Q Innovation. THE PRESIDENT: We got hurt when we didn’t get the vote on Obamacare. I made Obamacare — I had a choice: I could let it rot and win a point, or I could do the best you could do with it. And that’s what I did. We did a great job with it, and we made it sort of work, but it’s lousy. We could do so much better. And when you say — you go to certain areas, they — they have doctors round the clock. They have great medical care for a fraction of what we’re paying right now. There are things we could do. But, look, just overall, this man has been so valuable. I hate to see the way they go after him. They go after him. It’s so unfair. He doesn’t need this. He wants to do this. First of all, this is bigger than anything he’s ever done. He’s done great companies and all, but this is much — you know, this is trillion — everything’s trillions, right? MR. MUSK: Yeah. The numbers are crazy. Q To go back to my original point — THE PRESIDENT: He can save — MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q But let me — give him his $10 million back. MR. MUSK: Well — well — I — no. So, people ask me, like, “What’s — what’s the — what’s the — what’s, like, the — what’s your biggest surprise in — in D.C.?” And I’m like, “The sheer scale.” Q It’s massive. So, you love the challenge? MR. MUSK: Well, I mean, to — THE PRESIDENT: He’ll never do anything bigger. MR. MUSK: To the president’s point — THE PRESIDENT: That’s the only thing you can say, “He’ll never do anything” — MR. MUSK: But, I mean, you do something slightly better, and you save billions of dollars for the American taxpayer — just slightly better. Slightly. (Laughs.) Q When you say “tech support” — MR. MUSK: You go one percent better, and it’s, like, you know, tens of billions of dollars saved to the American taxpayer. Now, if I may address the point that you — the question you asked earlier, which is, you know, how do we assure people that — Q They want to know. MR. MUSK: Yeah, how do we assure people that we’re going to do the right thing, that their — that their Social Security benefits will be there, that their — the medical care will be good and s- — and — in fact, how do we make it — ensure that there’s better medical care in the future? How do we improve their benefits? How do we make sure that their Social Security check goes further than it did in the past and not — it doesn’t get weakened by inflation? So, the — if we — if we address the — the massive deficit spending, the sort of — the — the waste in the government, then — then we can actually address inflation. So, provided the economy grows faster than the money supply, which means you stop the government overspending and the waste, and the output of real useful goods and services exceeds the increase in the money supply, you have no inflation. Q Yeah. MR. MUSK: And — and you also drop the — the interest payments that people pay, because if the government keeps — Q Way too high. MR. MUSK: Yes. The — the reason the interest payments are so high is because the — the national debt keeps increasing. So, the — the government is competing for — to sell debt with — for — with — with the private citizens. This drives up the interest rate. So, if you have a — if you have a — if you cut back on the deficit, you actually have an amazing situation for people, because you get r- — you get rid of inflation and you drop the interest rates. And that means people’s mortgage payments go down, their credit card payments go down, their car payments go down, their student loans go down. Everything — their — their life becomes more affordable and they’re standard of living improves. Q How quickly? Because I think people are suffering now. We’re still living under the Biden-Harris economy. THE PRESIDENT: But, Sean, you have states right now — Q Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: You have some states that operate that way. They operate as well as any corporation. They really operate well. MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q Florida. THE PRESIDENT: They have surpluses. They ha- — they don’t — MR. MUSK: Texas is — has a surplus, for example. Q Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: When they — when they look at New York and — and California and some of these places that should have an advantage — I mean, there’s a big advantage — or Pritzker does such a bad job in Illinois; it’s horrible how bad he is — and they don’t have that advantage. You know, New York has stock exchange and a lot of things. And California has the weather and the beautiful water and all the thing- — MR. MUSK: California has — has great weather. The most expensive weather on Earth. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. (Laughter.) But — but — Q I like Florida. MR. MUSK: Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: But some states operate the way he’s talking about. Q Efficiently. THE PRESIDENT: When you go into some of these states, you’re going to find very little. You’re going to find almost nothing. They really operate well — big surpluses, low taxes. And — Q You know, my taxes went up the first time you were president, because you took away the SALT deduction — THE PRESIDENT: I — well, I did. Q — which, by the way, I thought was the right decision. THE PRESIDENT: It was the right decision — in fact, Reagan tried to do it — because it rewards badly run states. But at the same time, it’s a tough — it was — it’s tough for the states. I mean, it really is tough for the states. The sad part is it rewards really badly run states. Q Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: And Reagan tried to do it. He was unable to do it. I got it done. Q You got it done, and — THE PRESIDENT: And now we’re going to give some back. Q A little bit. THE PRESIDENT: Because you know what? We’ve got to help them. Q It’s only a little. THE PRESIDENT: We’ve got to help. Q Because otherwi- — we’re encouraging people to elect high taxes, spen- — THE PRESIDENT: Nobody had any idea it would be that devastating. I did the right thing. I got something that Reagan couldn’t do. I got it done, where everybody is — are the same. But you know what? We’ve got to help them out. Q Reagan had the Grace Commission, some of the best business minds in the country. THE PRESIDENT: Right. Q And they came up with recommendations. Congress adopted none of them, and none of them were implemented. I’ve got to ask this question, because the media is obsessed about it: What — what if there is a conflict? In other words, because you do business — it was funny, when it came out the other day, that there was going to be, I think, $400 million — billio- — I don’t know if it was millions or billions — a lot of money on Teslas that Joe Biden’s administration w- — did with Tesla, and — MR. MUSK: I’m not familiar with that. Q You’re not even familiar with it? But — MR. MUSK: I — I don’t think — are you talking about, like, the Inflation Reduction Act stuff or — Q It was some — it was a purchase order of Tesla vehicles. MR. MUSK: Oh. Oh, that was — that was incorrect. There was s- — like, there’s some sort of — the media claim that there was, like, $400 million worth of Cybertrucks — Q That was it. MR. MUSK: — being bought by the DOD. Q And that he gave it to you. MR. MUSK: No — well, first of all, that was — THE PRESIDENT: No, actually, it was — MR. MUSK: Th- — it was fa- — THE PRESIDENT: It was Biden. Q It was Biden. THE PRESIDENT: And you know Biden wouldn’t give him much. MR. MUSK: But — but it wasn’t even — it was fake news, six weeks to Sunday. Tesla is not getting $400 million for Cybertrucks. And the — and the — and this alleged — Q That’s what it was, Cybertrucks. MR. MUSK: This — yeah. This alleged award occurred in December, before the president took office. So, it’s — it’s fake on multiple levels. There i- — Tesla isn’t getting $400 million. And even if it — even if it was, which it isn’t, it was awarded during the Biden administration. Q Okay, but you’re — you — you — MR. MUSK: It’s total fake news. Q There — there is — MR. MUSK: It’s fake on, like — it’s like multiple leverals — Q There is some integration — MR. MUSK: — multiple layers of fake. Q So, you’re — you’re tasked now — and I pray to God this is successful. I really do. I wish you Godspeed. MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q You know, “Godspeed, John Glenn.” THE PRESIDENT: It’s — it’s going to be, by the way. I really believe it’s going to be. Q But — but there — MR. MUSK: Oh, yeah. Q But there are legitimate areas — THE PRESIDENT: Because the country is going to do well beside this. This is cutting. We’re only talking about cutting. We’re also going to make a lot of money. We’re g- — we’re taking in so much money. Q But what about his business? What if — if there is — THE PRESIDENT: Then we won’t let him do it. Q — a contract he would otherwise get? THE PRESIDENT: We’re not going to let him do it. He — if — Q You’re not going to let him do it? THE PRESIDENT: If he’s got a conflict — I mean, look — he — Q Y- — now y- — THE PRESIDENT: He’s in certain areas — I mean, I see this morning — I didn’t — I didn’t know, but I said, “Do the right thing” — where they’re cutting way back on the electric vehicle subsidies. MR. MUSK: Yes. THE PRESIDENT: They’re cutting back. Q You’re losing — THE PRESIDENT: Not only cutting back — Q It hurts you. MR. MUSK: Correct. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Now, I will tell you — Q You don’t care? MR. MUSK: Well — THE PRESIDENT: He’s probably not that happy with it, but that would have been one thing he would have come to me and said, “Listen, you got to do me a favor. This is crazy.” (Laughter.) But this was in the tax bill. They’re cutting back on the subsidies. I didn’t — I wasn’t involved in it. I said, “Do what’s right, and you get” — and they’re coming up with the tax, but it’s just preliminary. But I mean, if he were involved, wouldn’t you think he’d probably do that? Now, maybe he does better if you cut back on the subsidies. Who knows. Because he figures — he does think differently. He thinks he has a better product, and as long as he has a level playing field, he doesn’t care what you do — MR. MUSK: Exactly. THE PRESIDENT: — which he’s very — he’s told me that. MR. MUSK: Yeah. I mean, I haven’t asked the president for anything ever. THE PRESIDENT: It’s true. Q And if it comes up, how — how will you handle it? (Inaudible.) THE PRESIDENT: He won’t be involved. MR. MUSK: Yeah, I’ll — I’ll re- — I’ll recuse myself if it is a conflict. THE PRESIDENT: If there’s a conflict, he won’t be involved. MR. MUSK: Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: I mean, I wouldn’t want that, and he won’t want it. MR. MUSK: Right. And — and also, I’m getting a — sort of a daily proctology exam here. You know, it’s not like I’ll be getting away from something in the dead of night. Q Welcome to D.C. If you want a friend, get a dog. MR. MUSK: Well, I do have a dog, but I also have friends. (Laughter.) My dog loves me, poor little creature. THE PRESIDENT: You know the truth was — MR. MUSK: I need to bring him to D.C. THE PRESIDENT: He’s — I know every businessman. I know the — the good ones, the bad ones, the smart ones, the lucky ones. I know them all. This guy is a ver- — he’s a brilliant guy. He’s a great guy. He’s got tremendous imagination and scientific imagin- — far beyond — you know, you keep talking about a technologist and all, but you’re much more than a technologist. You are that. But he’s also a good person. He’s a very good person, and he wants to see the country do well. And I know a lot of great businesspeople, really great business people, but, you know, they’re not really, in some cases, very good people. And I know people that would try and take advantage of the situation. This guy is somebody that really cares for the country, and I saw that very early on. I saw it, really, a long time ago when I got to know him. He’s a very different kind of a character. That’s why — you know who loves him: young people that are very smart and that love the country. He’s got, like, a tremendous following, because that’s what he’s — he’s a good person. And he doesn’t need this. He didn’t need this, and he’s doing this to help the country. If I didn’t win this election, this country was — I don’t think it could have made it. I don’t — I mean, we’re allowing criminals — millions of criminals into our country, where everything is transgender, it’s men playing in women’s sports. I mean, none of this stuff — you could go — I could give you a hundred things. It’s almost like they’re trying to destroy the fabric of — of the country, of the world, because the world was following us. Now the world is following us out of this pit. We’ve done a lot. I’ll tell you what, in three weeks, we’ve done more — I think we’ve done more — in — in terms of meaningful, not just dollars — than maybe any president ever. And a lot of people are saying that. Q Shock — it’s been shock and awe. THE PRESIDENT: I mean, if we can keep it going at this level, this country is going to be at a level that it’s never seen before. Q You know one of the things you did that I really thought was pretty clever and smart and fair, and that was reciprocal tariffs. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, reciprocal. Q Ta- — I didn’t know India charged so much. I didn’t know the European Union to charge them. MR. MUSK: Yeah, totally. Q I didn’t know Canada was charging us. THE PRESIDENT: Everybody. Everybody. Everybody but us. Q Brazil, why? THE PRESIDENT: And I was doing it — you know, I charged China tariffs. I took in hundreds of billions of dollars, and I was doing that. But when we got — we had the greatest economy in history. But then we got hit with COVID, and we had to solve that problem, because I was doing it — and now I said, I want to come back and do the recipri- — because every country in the world almost — we have a deficit with almost every country — not every one, but just about, pretty close. And — but every country in the world takes advantage of us, and they do it with tariffs. They makes — make it — it’s impossible for him to sell a car, practically, in, as an example, India. I don’t know if that’s true or not, but I think — MR. MUSK: The tariffs are like 100 percent import duty. THE PRESIDENT: The tariffs are so high — MR. MUSK: Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: — they don’t want to — now, if he built the factory in India, that’s okay, but that’s unfair to us. It’s very unfair. And I said, “You know what we do?” I told Prime Minister Modi yesterday — he was here. I said, “Here’s what you do. We’re going to do — be very fair with you.” They charge the highest tariffs in the world, just about. Q 36 percent? THE PRESIDENT: Oh, much — much higher. MR. MUSK: It’s 100 percent on — auto imports are 100 percent. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, that’s peanuts. So, much higher. And — and others too. I said, “Here’s what we’re going to do: reciprocal. Whatever you charge, I’m charging.” He goes, “No, no, I don’t like that.” “No, no, whatever you charge, I’m going to charge.” I’m doing that with every country. MR. MUSK: It seems fair. Q Don’t you — THE PRESIDENT: (Laughs.) It does. MR. MUSK: It’s — it’s like fair is fair. THE PRESIDENT: Nobody can argue with me. You know, the media can’t argue — I said — they said, “Tariffs — you’re going to charge tariffs?” You know, if I said, like, 25 percent they’d say, “Oh, that’s terrible.” I don’t say that anymore — Q Can I — (inaudible) — THE PRESIDENT: — because I say, “Whatever they charge, we’ll charge.” And you know what? Q They stop. THE PRESIDENT: They — then they say, “Oh, that sounds fair.” MR. MUSK: All the president is saying is that — Q (Inaudible.) MR. MUSK: — it needs to be at a level playing field and — and fair and square. Q Yeah. And how does — how — THE PRESIDENT: And we’re going to make a lot of money and a lot of businesses are going to come pouring in. MR. MUSK: How can you argue with a fair and square situation? Q Don’t — don’t you think most of them will look at the — the — for example, without America, China’s economy will tank. They need our business. THE PRESIDENT: They do. Everybody needs us. Q Everybody needs it. THE PRESIDENT: And you know what? Q Do- — don’t you think they’ll stop? THE PRESIDENT: We only have so long left where we’re in this position. We’re the bank, and the bank is getting smaller and smaller and smaller. We — we’re the bank. We got to do this now. We can’t wait another 10 years and have a shell of a country left, because that’s what was going to happen. Q Mr. President — THE PRESIDENT: This country — if I didn’t win this election and have people like this man right here that really do care, because that’s the other word — if you don’t care, you could be the smartest guy in the world, it’s not going to matter. But if we didn’t win this election, I’m telling you, we would not have had a country for very long. Q How quickly — MR. MUSK: May I say — Q — do you balance the budget and — and when do we start paying down that debt? THE PRESIDENT: Well, potentially, very quickly, between what he’s doing and with income coming in from tariffs and other things. I mean, I hope we can — I don’t want to give a date, because then these people are going to say, “Oh, well, he didn’t make the date.” But I think we can do it very quickly. We would have never done it if this didn’t happen. Never. It would have never been — it would only get worse and worse, and ultimately, it would have exploded. This country was headed down a very bad track. And the whole DEI thing, that was — that was a trap. That was a sick trap. Q (Inaudible.) MR. MUSK: (Inaudible.) THE PRESIDENT: And, you know, we’ve destroyed that. That’s gone. That’s pretty much gone. Q I agree. MR. MUSK: (Inaudible) — Q We’re not — we’re not funding it. MR. MUSK: If — I really want to — I really want to emphasize to people that — this is a very important point — if we don’t solve the deficit, there won’t be money for medical care. There won’t be money — THE PRESIDENT: Right. MR. MUSK: — for Social Security. We either solve the deficit or all we’ll be doing is paying debt. Q Nobody — MR. MUSK: It’s — it’s got to be solved, or there’s no medical care, there’s no Social Security, there’s no nothing. That’s got to be solved. It’s not optional. America will go bankrupt if this is not done. That’s why I’m here. Q The president’s — THE PRESIDENT: Europe takes advantage of us. MR. MUSK: And — and I’d like to also just send a message — like, because, as the president said, like, this — there’s a lot of rich people out there. They should be caring more about the country because — the reason they should be caring about — more about country is: America falls, what do you think is going to happen to your business? What do — what do you think — do you think you’re be going to be okay if — if the ship of America sinks? Of course not. Like, what — what I’m doing here, what the president is doing is it’s just long-term thinking. The ship of America must be strong. The ship of America cannot sink. If it sinks, we all sink with it. THE PRESIDENT: Sean, you’re a — Q This is what — this is what drives you? MR. MUSK: Yes. Q This is important. It says “tech support.” So, you’re not trying to be president, as the media suggests. You are really here because your heart and your passion is this. And the president described you as being — this is the biggest thing you ever done. Now you trying to bring sight to — THE PRESIDENT: There could be nothing bigger. There’s nothing — Q You’re sending ships up to Mars — you know, spaceships up in the sky all the time — THE PRESIDENT: That’s peanuts. Q — and saving astronauts. That’s pretty big. THE PRESIDENT: That’s peanuts compared to what we’re talking about. Q It’s peanuts? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q Do you agree with that? MR. MUSK: Well, it’s esse- — it’s essential that America be healthy, that America’s economy be strong. And — and if that — if — basically, like, my concern is like, if — if — America is the central pillar holding up Western civilization. That pillar must be strong. If that pillar falls, the whole roof comes crashing down. THE PRESIDENT: Including his ships. MR. MUSK: There’s no place to hide. THE PRESIDENT: Including his ships going up. MR. MUSK: There’s no place to run. THE PRESIDENT: Nothing. There’s nothing left. Q Why — why, if this is your goal, your motivation, you’re losing money in the process, you’re offeri- — you do all these nice things for people for free; you’re trying to solve, you know, blindness; you’re going to rescue astronauts; you help the people in North Carolina, California; you’re cutting money that was sent abroad that’s not helping the American people, then why the rage — MR. MUSK: Actually, I think it was like — Q But why this rage? MR. MUSK: — it was not helping the American people and hurting people overseas, to be clear. Q Why this rage against you now? First, they hated him. Now they hate both of you. MR. MUSK: Well, I think we’re seeing an antibody reaction from — from those who are receiving the — the wasteful and fraudulent money. Q They’re being exposed. MR. MUSK: Yes. Q Nobody wants to be exposed when you’re corrupt. MR. MUSK: I’ll — I’ll tell you a lesson I learned at PayPal. You know who complained the loudest — the quickest and the loudest and with the most amount of righteous indignation? The fraudsters. That’s who complained first, loudest, and — and they would generally have this immense overreaction. That’s how we knew there were the fraudsters. That’s how we knew. There’s a tell. Q What di- — I’ve never — I’ve never met you before today. MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q And it’s nice to meet you, by the way. Thank — thank you for doing this. You guys are really friends. I could s- — you guys — I could see you kicking up your shoes. THE PRESIDENT: Well, he doesn’t do this kind of thing. And the way I figured that you’d get to know him is if I did it with him. I said, “Come on, let’s do it together.” He doesn’t do this. I think he’s smarter not doing it, overall. Because, you know, I mean, he’s done very well without doing it. But he doesn’t feel it’s really worthwhile. He wants the product to speak for itself, or whatever he does speak for itself. But he views it as — you know, does it matter? And I’m doing this with you today because I wanted to have people understand him. And I think it’s very important — I disagree with him. I think it’s very important that they do understand him. He doesn’t need this. He doesn’t need it. Now, I happen to think it’s made him very popular. I think it — he’s more popular now because there are so many people — you know, you’re talking about the radical left — they have the lowest ratings. MSNBC is dying. CNN is dying. They’re all dying. The New York Times is doing lousy. The Washington Post is doing horribly. They’re all doing badly because people don’t buy it anymore. But I think it was important that he do this one interview. You’ve been a very fair guy. I think you were the right guy to do it. If we could get some radical left guy — and he’d do just as well, frankly, because it’s all about common sense. Q They would attack him — THE PRESIDENT: But this — Sean — Q — as being unconstitutional, not — a fascist. THE PRESIDENT: — to me this was a — it was important for people to understand, he’s doing a big job. He’s doing a very thankless job. He’s doing a thankless job, but he’s helping us to save our country. Our country was in serious trouble, and I had to get the best guy, somebody with credibility, because if he were just a regular, good — very good, solid businessman, he wouldn’t have the credibility. He’s got the best credibility for this. And people also know he’s an honest guy. He’s an honest guy. He’s just a very, very smart guy who’s done amazing things. And this will be the biggest thing he’s ever done, because, you know, his companies are all great. But if this country goes bad — I guess where he is a little selfish is this. He knows one thing and probably doesn’t think — but if his — if this country goes bad, his stuff is not going to be worth very much, I can tell you. MR. MUSK: Well, I’d say, if the — if the ship of America sinks, we’re all go- — going down with it. You know, this idea that people can escape to New Zealand or some other place is false. If the central pillar of Western civilization that is America falls, the whole roof comes crashing down and there is no escape. Q It’s amazing, since you’ve been elected, to watch Canada, Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia — I — I was shocked at the statements that Vladimir Putin made about you. I — I was shocked at the hostage release. I was shocked that Venezuela had done it — had done it. Zelenskyy wants a deal. Putin wants a deal. THE PRESIDENT: All good statements. Q King Abdullah was interested. THE PRESIDENT: You mean by that all good statements. Look, they respect the president of this country. They respect — they did not respect the last president. They laughed at him, and they laughed at our country, and he’s done great damage to our country. Q Have foreign leaders told you what they thought of Biden? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, they have, but I’d rather not say. They — they have. It’s not — it — look — Q It’s the obvious. THE PRESIDENT: He was not George Washington, let’s put it that way. MR. MUSK: (Inaudible.) THE PRESIDENT: Not the greatest. Q Sorry, if that’s (inaudible). THE PRESIDENT: He’s done a tremendous disservice. Q Will you be here — THE PRESIDENT: And, by the way, the Democrats have done a great disservice, and they ought to get their act together and use a little judgment, and they ought to work with us on straightening out this mess that — Q Who? John Fetterman? THE PRESIDENT: — a lot of people have — Q Maybe? Who — what Democrat is not radicalized? THE PRESIDENT: Actually, you mention John. Q John Fetterman. THE PRESIDENT: He’s become the best voice in the Democrat party. You know, I had lunch with him, and I thought he was terrific, but he’s a much different man than he was before he had this difficulty. He used to be radical left, and I think he became much smarter, actually. He’s really — he’s really a voice of reason. But the Democrats have to get together. They have to get their act together, because the stuff they — they talk about makes no sense. It makes — none whatsoever. And they must know it. They must know. MR. MUSK: Yeah. I mean, like, the country has spoken very clearly and rejected the core tenets of the Demo- — Democratic Party. The country voted t- — fo- — I mean, the country made the — America has made its vote clear. The president won the popular vote decisively. The Republicans won the House. Repub- — Republicans won the Senate. What more do you need? The Democratic Party needs to take a hard look in the mirror and — and change their ways. Q I think they went from shock, denial, into the depression stage of grief, and now they’re in the rage stage, where I anticipate they’ll stay for four years, and if they get the chance, they’ll want to impeach him 10 times. Do you anticipate you’ll be here in four years? My last question. MR. MUSK: I’ll — I’ll be as helpful as long as I can be helpful. THE PRESIDENT: That’s a good question. I mean, I was thinking about that just now. I said, “I wonder how long he’s going to be doing it.” You can’t get somebody like this. He cares, and he’s brilliant, and he’s got energy. You need energy, also, in addition to those other things. You know, I have a lot of guys that are very smart, but they have no energy. They want to sleep all day long. You need a lot of energy. He’s got a lot of energy. He’s doing a great job. If there’s any conflict, he — he will stop it. But if he didn’t, I’d stop it. I’d see if there’s a conflict. I mean, we’re talking about big stuff. But he’s under a pretty big microscope. MR. MUSK: Yeah, seriously. THE PRESIDENT: I mean, everybody is watching him. If there’s a conflict, you’re going to be reading about it within about two minutes after the conflict. MR. MUSK: Exactly. There — there’s — the possibility of me getting away with something is 0 percent — 0.0. I — I’m scrutinized to a ridiculous degree. And — and the other thing is that we — you know, what — what’s — you know what’s better than saying “trust — trust me” is just full transparency. So, what we’re doing with — with the DOGE — DOGE dot — just go to DOGE.gov. You can see every single action that’s being taken. And now –and I want to be clear, we are going to make some mistakes. We’re not going to be perfect. Nobody bats a thousand. But we’re going to fix the mistakes very quickly. That’s what matters: not that you don’t make mistakes, but that you fix the mistakes very fast. THE PRESIDENT: And you’re going to ask the other side, when they talk about, “This is a constitutional crisis,” you got to a- — what are they paying for? Where are those tax — because when you read off the list of things, it’s a big con job. See, when they talk Constitution — MR. MUSK: Totally. THE PRESIDENT: — it’s a total con job. MR. MUSK: Yes. THE PRESIDENT: They never talk — and I watch some of the shows — MR. MUSK: It’s specifics — they avoid specifics. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, when you start talking about how did — how come they spent money on transgender here and transgender there — MR. MUSK: Yeah, totally. THE PRESIDENT: — and all the stuff in some country that nobody ever heard of, they don’t want to talk about it. They just talk about, “This is a constitutional crisis.” Q It shocks the conscious. THE PRESIDENT: The money is being squandered purposely — tremendous theft, tremendous kickbacks, everything — and we’re straightening it out. And thank goodness. I look up, and I say, “Thank you,” because I think if it went on for four more years, it would not be salvageable. You wouldn’t be able — MR. MUSK: Absolutely. THE PRESIDENT: You wouldn’t be able to save it. Q You believe, too, that when you were in Butler, came within a millimeter being assassinated — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q The day you endorsed him, that was that day. MR. MUSK: Yes. Q But you had been planning on it? MR. MUSK: Yeah. Q Pretty — I think everybody will never forget that iconic blood on your face. “Fight, fight, fight.” I actually was afra- — watching it and thought you might drop again. You know, I didn’t know if it had hit you. You can sometimes get up and then the blood starts to accumulate. It was scary — pretty scary. MR. MUSK: Well, I mean, th- — this is how you know someone’s true character, because everyone can say they’re brave, but the president was actually shot. Okay? Courage under fire. “Fight, fight, fight,” blood streaming down the face. That’s true courage. You can’t fake that. Q Yeah. Thank you both. Mr. President, thank you, sir. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. Q Appreciate it. Elon, thank you for your time. Really nice to meet you. END 1:01 P.M. EST
Daytona International SpeedwayDaytona, Florida 1:44 P.M. EST Q I’m joined now by the president of the United States. Mr. President, five years ago, we were standing in this very spot. THE PRESIDENT: That’s right. Q What brings you back to the “Great American Race”? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I think it’s fantastic. It’s great for the country. Our country is doing well again. And we have spirit — all over the world, there’s spirit again. We brought it back, and it’s been less than four weeks. So, you’ll see what we do in — in a little period of time, it’s going to only get better. But this is very exciting. Q You brought your granddaughter. THE PRESIDENT: That’s right. Carolina. Q I know some of your other family members are here. You get to take a ride around in the Beast. THE PRESIDENT: I’m going to do that. Q What is that like? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I’ll let you know in about two minutes, because it’s going to be — they’re going to be going quite quickly, I understand. Q And you just got to meet some of the drivers. THE PRESIDENT: I did. Q Are you going to get on the radio again and talk to them before the start of this? THE PRESIDENT: I’m going to talk to them. And I say they have a lot of courage doing this. I see it, and I’ve been here, and they have a lot of guts, as they would say. Q Mr. President, enjoy your time. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. Great. END 1:45 P.M. EST
SUBJECT: Keeping Americans Safe in Aviation Every day, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), within the U.S. Department of Transportation, oversees safety for more than 45,000 flights and 2.9 million airline passengers. These Americans trust the FAA’s public servants with their lives, and it is therefore imperative that they maintain a commitment to excellence and efficiency. During the prior administration, however, the FAA betrayed its mission by elevating dangerous discrimination over excellence. For example, prior to my Inauguration, the FAA Diversity and Inclusion website revealed that the prior administration sought to specifically recruit and hire individuals with serious infirmities that could impact the execution of their essential life-saving duties. Illegal and discriminatory diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) hiring, including on the basis of race, sex, disability, or any other criteria other than the safety of airline passengers and overall job excellence, competency, and qualification, harms all Americans, who deserve to fly with confidence. It also penalizes hard-working Americans who want to serve in the FAA but are unable to do so, as they lack a requisite disability or skin color. FAA employees must hold the qualifications and have the ability to perform their jobs to the highest possible standard of excellence. I hereby order the Secretary of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administrator to immediately return to non-discriminatory, merit-based hiring, as required by law. All so-called DEI initiatives, including all dangerous preferencing policies or practices, shall immediately be rescinded in favor of hiring, promoting, and otherwise treating employees on the basis of individual capability, competence, achievement, and dedication. The Secretary of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administrator shall review the past performance and performance standards of all individuals in critical safety positions and take all appropriate action to ensure that any individual who fails or has failed to demonstrate requisite capability is replaced by a high-capability individual that will ensure top-notch air safety and efficiency.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose and Policy. Some school districts and universities continue to coerce children and young adults into taking the COVID-19 vaccine by conditioning their education on it, and others may re-implement such mandates. Parents and young adults should be empowered with accurate data regarding the remote risks of serious illness associated with COVID-19 for children and young adults, as well as how those risks can be mitigated through various measures, and left free to make their own decisions accordingly. Given the incredibly low risk of serious COVID-19 illness for children and young adults, threatening to shut them out of an education is an intolerable infringement on personal freedom. Such mandates usurp parental authority and burden students of many faiths. It is the policy of my Administration that discretionary Federal funds should not be used to directly or indirectly support or subsidize an educational service agency, State educational agency, local educational agency, elementary school, secondary school, or institution of higher education that requires students to have received a COVID-19 vaccination to attend any in-person education program. Sec. 2. Definitions. For the purposes of this order: (a) The term “educational service agency” has the meaning given in 20 U.S.C. 1401(5).(b) The term “elementary school” has the meaning given in 34 C.F.R. 77.1(c). (c) The term “institution of higher education” has the meaning given in 20 U.S.C. 1001(a). (d) The term “local educational agency” has the meaning given in 34 C.F.R. 77.1(c).(e) The term “secondary school” has the meaning given in 34 C.F.R. 77.1(c). (f) The term “State educational agency” has the meaning given in 34 C.F.R. 77.1(c). Sec. 3. Ending COVID-19 Vaccine Mandate Coercion. (a) The Secretary of Education shall as soon as practicable issue guidelines to elementary schools, local educational agencies, State educational agencies, secondary schools, and institutions of higher education regarding those entities’ legal obligations with respect to parental authority, religious freedom, disability accommodations, and equal protection under law, as relevant to coercive COVID-19 school mandates.(b) Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Education, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall provide to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, a plan to end coercive COVID-19 school mandates, consistent with applicable law, and including, as appropriate, any proposed legislation. Such plan shall also include:(i) a list of discretionary Federal grants and contracts provided to elementary schools, local educational agencies, State educational agencies, secondary schools, and institutions of higher education that are non-compliant with the guidelines issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this section; and(ii) each executive department or agency’s process for, to the maximum extent consistent with applicable law, preventing Federal funds from being provided to, and rescinding Federal funds from, elementary schools, local educational agencies, State educational agencies, secondary schools, and institutions of higher education that are non-compliant with the guidelines issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this section. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and to protect opportunities for women and girls to compete in safe and fair sports, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Policy and Purpose. In recent years, many educational institutions and athletic associations have allowed men to compete in women’s sports. This is demeaning, unfair, and dangerous to women and girls, and denies women and girls the equal opportunity to participate and excel in competitive sports. Moreover, under Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972 (Title IX), educational institutions receiving Federal funds cannot deny women an equal opportunity to participate in sports. As some Federal courts have recognized, “ignoring fundamental biological truths between the two sexes deprives women and girls of meaningful access to educational facilities.” Tennessee v. Cardona, 24-cv-00072 at 73 (E.D. Ky. 2024). See also Kansas v. U.S. Dept. of Education, 24-cv-04041 at 23 (D. Kan. 2024) (highlighting “Congress’ goals of protecting biological women in education”). Therefore, it is the policy of the United States to rescind all funds from educational programs that deprive women and girls of fair athletic opportunities, which results in the endangerment, humiliation, and silencing of women and girls and deprives them of privacy. It shall also be the policy of the United States to oppose male competitive participation in women’s sports more broadly, as a matter of safety, fairness, dignity, and truth. Sec. 2. Definitions. The definitions in Executive Order 14168 of January 20, 2025 (Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government), shall apply to this order. Sec.3. Preserving Women’s Sports in Education. (a) In furtherance of the purposes of Title IX, the Secretary of Education shall promptly: (i) in coordination with the Attorney General, continue to comply with the vacatur of the rule entitled “Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance” of April 29, 2024, 89 FR 33474, see Tennessee v. Cardona, 24-cv-00072 at 13-15 (E.D. Ky. 2025), and take other appropriate action to ensure this regulation does not have effect; (ii) take all appropriate action to affirmatively protect all-female athletic opportunities and all-female locker rooms and thereby provide the equal opportunity guaranteed by Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972, including enforcement actions described in subsection (iii); to bring regulations and policy guidance into line with the Congress’ existing demand for “equal athletic opportunity for members of both sexes” by clearly specifying and clarifying that women’s sports are reserved for women; and the resolution of pending litigation consistent with this policy; and (iii) prioritize Title IX enforcement actions against educational institutions (including athletic associations composed of or governed by such institutions) that deny female students an equal opportunity to participate in sports and athletic events by requiring them, in the women’s category, to compete with or against or to appear unclothed before males. (b) All executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall review grants to educational programs and, where appropriate, rescind funding to programs that fail to comply with the policy established in this order. (c) The Department of Justice shall provide all necessary resources, in accordance with law, to relevant agencies to ensure expeditious enforcement of the policy established in this order. Sec. 4. Preserving Fairness and Safety in Women’s Sports. Many sport-specific governing bodies have no official position or requirements regarding trans-identifying athletes. Others allow men to compete in women’s categories if these men reduce the testosterone in their bodies below certain levels or provide documentation of “sincerely held” gender identity. These policies are unfair to female athletes and do not protect female safety. To address these concerns, it is hereby ordered: (a) The Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall, within 60 days of the date of this order: (i) convene representatives of major athletic organizations and governing bodies, and female athletes harmed by such policies, to promote policies that are fair and safe, in the best interests of female athletes, and consistent with the requirements of Title IX, as applicable; and (ii) convene State Attorneys General to identify best practices in defining and enforcing equal opportunities for women to participate in sports and educate them about stories of women and girls who have been harmed by male participation in women’s sports. (b) The Secretary of State, including through the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs’ Sports Diplomacy Division and the Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, shall: (i) rescind support for and participation in people-to-people sports exchanges or other sports programs within which the relevant female sports category is based on identity and not sex; and (ii) promote, including at the United Nations, international rules and norms governing sports competition to protect a sex-based female sports category, and, at the discretion of the Secretary of State, convene international athletic organizations and governing bodies, and female athletes harmed by policies that allow male participation in women’s sports, to promote sporting policies that are fair, safe, and in furtherance of the best interests of female athletes. (c) The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall review and adjust, as needed, policies permitting admission to the United States of males seeking to participate in women’s sports, and shall issue guidance with an objective of preventing such entry to the extent permitted by law, including pursuant to section 212(a)(6)(C)(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(6)(C)(i)). (d) The Secretary of State shall use all appropriate and available measures to see that the International Olympic Committee amends the standards governing Olympic sporting events to promote fairness, safety, and the best interests of female athletes by ensuring that eligibility for participation in women’s sporting events is determined according to sex and not gender identity or testosterone reduction. Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. (d) If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 5, 2025. 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES SUBJECT: Limiting Lame-Duck Collective Bargaining Agreements That Improperly Attempt to Constrain the New President By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 7301 of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:Section 1. Policy and Purpose. In the final days of the prior administration’s tenure, it purposefully finalized collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) with Federal employees in an effort to harm my Administration by extending its wasteful and failing policies beyond its time in office. For example, the Department of Education negotiated a CBA on January 17, 2025 — 3 days before I took office — that generally prohibits the agency from returning remote employees to their offices.Such last-minute, lame-duck CBAs, which purport to bind a new President to his predecessor’s policies, run counter to America’s system of democratic self-government. CBAs quickly negotiated to include extreme policies on the eve of a new administration are purposefully designed to circumvent the will of the people and our democracy. Such CBAs inhibit the President’s authority to manage the executive branch by tying his hands with inefficient and ineffective practices. The Supreme Court has explained that a President “cannot choose to bind his successors by diminishing their powers.”Therefore, it is the policy of the executive branch that CBAs executed in the 30 days prior to the inauguration of a new President, and that purport to remain in effect despite the inauguration of a new President and administration, shall not be approved.Sec. 2. Standards for CBA Duration. (a) No executive department or agency (agency) or agency employees shall make a CBA governing conditions of employment in the 30 days prior to a change in Presidential administrations that:(i) creates new contractual obligations;(ii) makes substantive changes to existing agreements; or(iii) extends the duration of an existing agreement.(b) Subsection (a) of this section applies only to the extent that its requirements do not prevent CBAs from rolling over under existing contractual provisions.(c) To the extent that subordinate agency personnel have executed a CBA that violates the requirements of subsection (a) of this section, but the applicable agency head has not yet approved such agreement pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7114(c), such agency head shall promptly disapprove such agreement as inconsistent with the requirements of this memorandum. (d) The requirements of this section do not apply to CBAs that primarily cover law enforcement officers, as that term is used in 18 U.S.C. 1515(a)(4).Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) If the Federal Labor Relations Authority or a court of competent jurisdiction issues a final judgment holding that section 2(d) of this memorandum would prevent this memorandum from being considered a Government-wide rule or regulation for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 7117(a)(1), section 2(d) of this memorandum shall be severed and rendered inoperative thereby and given no force or effect.(d) This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.(e) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.

SUBJECT: Advancing United States Interests When Funding Nongovernmental Organizations The United States Government has provided significant taxpayer dollars to Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs), many of which are engaged in actions that actively undermine the security, prosperity, and safety of the American people. It is the policy of my Administration to stop funding NGOs that undermine the national interest. I therefore direct the heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) to review all funding that agencies provide to NGOs. The heads of agencies shall align future funding decisions with the interests of the United States and with the goals and priorities of my Administration, as expressed in executive actions; as otherwise determined in the judgment of the heads of agencies; and on the basis of applicable authorizing statutes, regulations, and terms.
01/24/25 SUBJECT: The Mexico City Policy I hereby revoke the Presidential Memorandum of January 28, 2021, for the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (Protecting Women’s Health at Home and Abroad), and reinstate the Presidential Memorandum of January 23, 2017, for the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (The Mexico City Policy). I direct the Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to the extent allowable by law, to implement a plan to extend the requirements of the reinstated Memorandum to global health assistance furnished by all departments or agencies. I further direct the Secretary of State to take all necessary actions, to the extent permitted by law, to ensure that U.S. taxpayer dollars do not fund organizations or programs that support or participate in the management of a program of coercive abortion or involuntary sterilization. This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
January 20, 2025 MEMORANDUM TO THE WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL SUBJECT: Memorandum to Resolve the Backlog of Security Clearances for Executive Office of the President Personnel The Executive Office of the President requires qualified and trusted personnel to execute its mandate on behalf of the American people. There is a backlog created by the Biden Administration in the processing of security clearances of individuals hired to work in the Executive Office of the President. Because of this backlog and the bureaucratic process and broken security clearance process, individuals who have not timely received the appropriate clearances are ineligible for access to the White House complex, infrastructure, and technology and are therefore unable to perform the duties for which they were hired. This is unacceptable. Therefore, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, I hereby order: 1. The White House Counsel to provide the White House Security Office and Acting Chief Security Officer with a list of personnel that are hereby immediately granted interim Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (TS/SCI) security clearances for a period not to exceed six months; and 2. That these individuals shall be immediately granted access to the facilities and technology necessary to perform the duties of the office to which they have been hired; and 3. The White House Counsel, as my designee, may supplement this list as necessary; and 4. The White House Counsel, as my designee, shall have the authority to revoke the interim clearance of any individual as necessary. This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA A PROCLAMATION Today, I am very honored to recognize February 2025 as National Black History Month. Every year, National Black History Month is an occasion to celebrate the contributions of so many black American patriots who have indelibly shaped our Nation’s history. Throughout our history, black Americans have been among our country’s most consequential leaders, shaping the cultural and political destiny of our Nation in profound ways. American heroes such as Frederick Douglass, Harriet Tubman, Thomas Sowell, Justice Clarence Thomas, and countless others represent what is best in America and her citizens. Their achievements, which have monumentally advanced the tradition of equality under the law in our great country, continue to serve as an inspiration for all Americans. We will also never forget the achievements of American greats like Tiger Woods, who have pushed the boundaries of excellence in their respective fields, paving the way for others to follow. This National Black History Month, as America prepares to enter a historic Golden Age, I want to extend my tremendous gratitude to black Americans for all they have done to bring us to this moment, and for the many future contributions they will make as we advance into a future of limitless possibility under my Administration. NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim February 2025 as National Black History Month. I call upon public officials, educators, librarians, and all the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand thisthirty-first day of January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.
Last week, President Donald J. Trump established the National Energy Dominance Council — a cornerstone in the Trump Administration’s pursuit of unleashing American energy. Led by Secretary of the Interior Doug Burgum and Secretary of Energy Chris Wright, the Council will play a key role in the Trump Administration’s work to lower energy prices, meet the rising demand for affordable energy, strengthen economic security, and ensure the American energy industry is best positioned as a global leader over the next century. The move was hailed by lawmakers, workers, and industry: House Committee on Energy and Commerce Chair Brett Guthrie (R-KY): “Energy security is national security. By utilizing our domestic energy resources to create baseload power, we can lower prices, secure our grid, and provide the energy needed to grow manufacturing, heat our homes, and fill our gas tanks. The creation of this council under the leadership of Secretary Wright and Secretary Burgum is a strong step toward securing our energy future, and ensuring we have the resources necessary to meet the demands that AI will place on our grid. President Trump is continuing to fulfill his promise to the American people to return our nation to energy dominance, and I look forward to working together to achieve that goal.” American Exploration and Production Council: “Our nation is stronger, more secure, and more prosperous when America is the world leader in energy production, and AXPC applauds the Trump administration’s recognition that a whole of government approach is necessary to address the challenges related to American energy dominance. Sound energy policy across agencies will support our ability to meet rising national and global demand for affordable, reliable energy. We will continue to work with Congress and the Trump administration and the new National Energy Dominance Council on sensible, durable policies that allow American energy companies to continue to innovate and produce the energy America needs.” North America’s Building Trades Unions: “North America’s Building Trades Unions look forward to engaging with the National Energy Dominance Council recently established by the White House. This effort, chaired by Secretary of the Interior Doug Burgum and vice-chaired by Secretary of Energy Chris Wright, comes at a critical moment for our nation. As our country’s energy demands continue to rise and we work to meet the needs of artificial intelligence, confront rising adversarial powers, and provide our citizenry with stable and affordable energy, we at NABTU are ready to meet the moment. The men and women of the Building Trades have built the existing energy infrastructure of this nation and are eager to partner with this Council to provide the highly skilled workforce necessary to advance America’s all-of-the-above energy strategy and bring about the next generation of expanded, domestic and affordable power supply.” National Rural Electric Cooperative Association CEO Jim Matheson: “We are thrilled that President Trump has established the National Energy Dominance Council to tackle some of the biggest energy policy challenges facing our nation. Electricity demand is skyrocketing, yet due to bad policy decisions, always-available baseload power is being forced to retire before it can be reliably replaced. As a result, much of the country faces an increased risk of energy shortfalls over the next decade. Under the leadership of Chairman Doug Burgum and Vice Chairman Chris Wright, the Council is perfectly positioned to address the growing threats to reliable and affordable power. We believe the Executive Order’s focus on improving key processes, including those for permitting, producing and distributing American energy, is exactly the right place to start.” United Association of Union Plumbers and Pipefitters General President Mark McManus: “The men and women of the United Association are the best trained and most highly skilled craftspeople in the energy industry, and for generations we have built the critical infrastructure that delivers affordable domestic energy to our homes and businesses across the nation. We are now poised to deliver the next generation of energy production at this critical point in our nation’s history, but all too often government red tape and environmental activist groups stand in the way of these good paying and family-sustaining jobs. We look forward to working with President Trump and the new National Energy Dominance Council to cut government red tape and modernize our permitting processes to boost domestic production of critical energy like oil, gas, hydrogen, carbon capture, and nuclear, and to reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy.” Power The Future Executive Director Daniel Turner: “The National Energy Dominance Council is a long-overdue course correction that prioritizes American energy workers, revitalizes domestic production, and ensures affordability for families. The NEDC has the opportunity to right the many wrongs of the Biden administration’s failures by working alongside the private sector to create policies that increase production, drive down costs, and protect the environment. By cutting through burdensome regulations and anti-energy mandates, the NEDC will unleash America’s full energy potential and pave the way for an era of prosperity, affordability, and innovation.” National Association of Manufacturers President Jay Timmons: “President Trump is moving quickly to unleash America’s full energy potential by establishing the National Energy Dominance Council, setting America up to lead on energy and secure our energy independence. This action demonstrates President Trump and his administration’s commitment to ensuring manufacturers have the energy they need to drive economic growth. […] The National Energy Dominance Council, under the leadership of Interior Secretary Burgum and Energy Secretary Wright, will help power the future of manufacturing in America because when manufacturing wins, America wins.” Competitive Enterprise Institute Senior Fellow Marlo Lewis: “This is welcome news. Unlike the previous administration, which increased US reliance on oil imports from OPEC and critical minerals from China by rigging domestic markets against reliable energy from fossil fuels, President Trump seeks to emancipate all sources of reliable American energy to compete in domestic and overseas markets. The president also seeks to accelerate the permitting of new energy infrastructure, including the power plants needed to support hundreds of new data centers and US leadership in artificial intelligence. President Trump is correct that clearing away impediments to America’s global leadership in energy production and exports will lower energy prices, enhance US economic security, create millions of new well-paying jobs, and strengthen US competitiveness in advanced technologies such as AI.” Growth Energy: “#ICYMI last week @POTUS established the National Energy Dominance Council, noting that #biofuels ‘reduce our dependency on foreign imports, and grow our economy’ – #ethanol producers are ready to deliver for American consumers and the president’s priorities!” Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council: “The National Energy Dominance Council is greatly needed to promptly reduce onerous barriers and rules that work against an abundant energy supply. Rather than federal government agencies finding ways to expand their regulatory turf and stymie the energy sector, the Council is tasked with reducing outdated red tape and moving with speed on recommendations and action, which will facilitate the significant investment needed for big projects. A modern regulatory system and commitment to U.S. energy supremacy will generate quality jobs, economic vibrancy and growth, and innovations that will yield efficiencies and cleaner energy. As both energy consumers and as significant players in the U.S. energy sector, small businesses will greatly benefit. SBE Council thanks President Trump for prioritizing this critical sector and for his commitment to more affordable, reliable and abundant energy for America.” Americans for Prosperity: “Coupled with earlier Executive Orders signed by President Trump, with this Order, the current administration is well on its way in laying the groundwork for a future where energy abundance can become a reality. Americans for Prosperity applauds President Trump’s actions in this Executive Order and anticipates a bright future for energy production in this country.”
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE THE ATTORNEY GENERAL THE SECRETARY OF ENERGY THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OF STAFF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE THE UNITED STATES PERMANENT REPRESENTATIVE TO THE UNITED NATIONS THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE THE DIRECTOR OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR NATIONAL SECURITY AFFAIRS THE COUNSEL TO THE PRESIDENT THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR ECONOMIC POLICY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF THE DIRECTOR OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIONSUBJECT: Imposing Maximum Pressure on the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Denying Iran All Paths to a Nuclear Weapon, and Countering Iran’s Malign InfluenceAs President, my highest priority is to ensure the safety and security of the United States and the American people. Since its inception in 1979 as a revolutionary theocracy, the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran has declared its hostility to the United States and its allies and partners. Iran remains the world’s leading state sponsor of terror and has aided Hezbollah, Hamas, the Houthis, the Taliban, al-Qa’ida, and other terrorist networks. The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) is itself a designated Foreign Terrorist Organization.The Iranian Government, including the IRGC, is using agents and cyber-enabled means to target United States nationals living in the United States and other countries around the world for attacks, including assault, kidnapping, and murder. Iran has also directed its proxy groups, including Hezbollah’s Islamic Jihad Organization, to embed sleeper cells in the Homeland to be activated in support of this terrorist activity. Iran bears responsibility for the horrific Hamas massacres committed on October 7, 2023, and bears responsibility for continued Houthi attacks against the United States Navy, allied navies, and international commercial shipping in the Red Sea. Since April 2024, the regime has twice demonstrated its willingness to launch ballistic and cruise missile attacks against the State of Israel. Iran commits grievous human rights abuses and arbitrarily detains foreigners, including United States citizens, on spurious charges without due process of law, subjecting them to abuse. The United States stands with the women of Iran who face daily abuse by the regime. Iran’s nuclear program, including its enrichment- and reprocessing-related capabilities and nuclear-capable missiles, poses an existential danger to the United States and the entire civilized world. A radical regime like this can never be allowed to acquire or develop nuclear weapons, or to extort the United States or its allies through the threat of nuclear weapons acquisition, development, or use. Iran today stands in breach of its Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty obligations by concealing undeclared nuclear sites and material as required by its Comprehensive Safeguards Agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Iran has obstructed IAEA access to its military sites or sites tied to the Organization of Defensive Innovation and Research, also known as SPND, and to interview nuclear weapons scientists still employed by SPND. Public reports indicating that Iran may now be engaged in computer modeling related to nuclear weapons development raise immediate alarm. We must deny Iran all paths to a nuclear weapon and end the regime’s nuclear extortion racket. Iran’s behavior threatens the national interest of the United States. It is therefore in the national interest to impose maximum pressure on the Iranian regime to end its nuclear threat, curtail its ballistic missile program, and stop its support for terrorist groups. Section 1. Policy. It is the policy of the United States that Iran be denied a nuclear weapon and intercontinental ballistic missiles; that Iran’s network and campaign of regional aggression be neutralized; that the IRGC and its surrogates be disrupted, degraded, or denied access to the resources that sustain their destabilizing activities; and to counter Iran’s aggressive development of missiles and other asymmetric and conventional weapons capabilities. Sec. 2. Enacting Maximum Pressure on the Islamic Republic of Iran. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury shall: (i) immediately impose sanctions or appropriate enforcement remedies on all persons for which the Department has evidence of activity in violation of one or more Iran-related sanctions; (ii) implement a robust and continual sanctions enforcement campaign with respect to Iran that denies the regime and its terror proxies access to revenue; (iii) review for modification or rescission any general license, frequently asked question, or other guidance that provides Iran or any of its terror proxies any degree of economic or financial relief; (iv) issue updated guidance to all relevant business sectors including shipping, insurance, and port operators, about the risks to any person that knowingly violates United States sanctions with respect to Iran or an Iranian terror proxy; and (v) maintain countermeasures against Iran at the Financial Action Task Force, evaluate beneficial ownership thresholds to ensure sanctions deny Iran all possible illicit revenue, and evaluate whether financial institutions should adopt a “Know Your Customer’s Customer” standard for Iran-related transactions to further prevent sanctions evasion. (b) The Secretary of State shall: (i) modify or rescind sanctions waivers, particularly those that provide Iran any degree of economic or financial relief, including those related to Iran’s Chabahar port project; (ii) implement a robust and continual campaign, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury and other relevant executive departments or agencies (agencies), to drive Iran’s export of oil to zero, including exports of Iranian crude to the People’s Republic of China; (iii) lead a diplomatic campaign to isolate Iran throughout the world, including within international organizations, including the denial of freedom of movement or safe haven to the IRGC or any terror proxy of Iran wherever such may operate outside Iran’s borders; and (iv) take immediate steps, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury and other relevant agencies, to ensure that the Iraqi financial system is not utilized by Iran for sanctions evasion or circumvention, and that Gulf countries are not used as sanctions evasion transshipment points. (c) The United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations shall: (i) work with key allies to complete the snapback of international sanctions and restrictions on Iran; (ii) hold Iran accountable for its breach of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty; and (iii) regularly convene the United Nations Security Council to highlight the myriad threats posed by Iran to international peace and security. (d) The Secretary of Commerce shall conduct a robust and continuous export control enforcement campaign to restrict the flow of technology and components used by the regime for military purposes. (e) The Attorney General shall: (i) pursue all available legal steps to investigate, disrupt, and prosecute financial and logistical networks, operatives, or front groups inside the United States that are sponsored by Iran or an Iranian terror proxy; (ii) pursue all available legal steps to impound illicit Iranian oil cargoes; (iii) pursue all available legal steps to identify Iranian governmental assets in the United States and overseas, and help American victims of terrorism, including Gold Star Families, collect on Federal judgments against Iran; (iv) pursue all available legal steps to indict and prosecute the leaders and members of Iranian-funded terrorist groups and proxies that have captured, harmed, or killed American citizens and, where possible and in coordination with the Secretary of State, seek their arrest and extradition to the United States; and (v) use all criminal, regulatory, and cyber authorities and tools to vigorously investigate, prosecute, and disrupt efforts by the Iranian government to conduct espionage or obtain military, intelligence, government, or other sensitive information, compromise the Homeland and our critical infrastructure, evade sanctions and export controls, obtain material support for terrorism, exert foreign malign influence, and threaten harm and infringe on First Amendment-protected speech, including efforts designed to sow anti-Semitism. Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 
NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE: Gary Andres, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services. Daniel Aronowitz, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor. James Baehr, of Louisiana, to be General Counsel, Department of Veterans Affairs. Kirsten Baesler, of North Dakota, to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education. Joseph Barloon, of Maryland, to be a Deputy United States Trade Representative (Geneva Office), with the rank of Ambassador. Benjamin Black, of New York, to be Chief Executive Officer of the United States International Development Finance Corporation. Kevin Cabrera, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Panama. Sean Cairncross, of Minnesota, to be National Cyber Director. Gustav Chiarello III, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services. Tyler Clarkson, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Agriculture. Jason De Sena Trennert, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. Thomas DiNanno, of Florida, to be Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security. Sean Donahue, of Florida, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. David Eisner, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy. David Fogel, of Connecticut, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service. George Glass, of Oregon, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Japan. Jonathan Gould, of Virginia, to be Comptroller of the Currency for a term of five years. Catherine Hanson, of South Carolina, to be Chief Financial Officer, Environmental Protection Agency. Landon Heid, of Missouri, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce. Peter Hoekstra, of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Canada. Allison Hooker, of Georgia, to be an Under Secretary of State (Political Affairs). Mike Huckabee, of Arkansas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Israel. John Hurley, of California, to be Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Crimes. Scott Hutchins, of Indiana, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Economics. Ronald Johnson, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Mexican States. Taylor Jordan, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce. Paul Kapur, of California, to be Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian Affairs. David Keeling, of Kentucky, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor. Nicholas Kent, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Education. Joseph Kent, of Washington, to be Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Jessica Kramer, of Wisconsin, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Charles Kushner, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the French Republic, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Principality of Monaco. Henry Mack III, of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor. Ned Mamula, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the United States Geological Survey. Jennifer Mascott, of Maryland, to be General Counsel, Department of Education. Jonathan McKernan, of Tennessee, to be Director, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection for a term of five years. Jonathan Morrison, of California, to be Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Brian Morrissey, Jr., of Virginia, to be General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury. Brian Nesvik, of Wyoming, to be Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Kevin O’Farrell, of Florida, to be Assistant Secretary for Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education. Caleb Orr, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Economic and Business Affairs). Wayne Palmer, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health. Luke Pettit, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. Tina Pierce, of Idaho, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Energy. Chris Pratt, of Utah, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Political-Military Affairs). Brian Quintenz, of Ohio, to be Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Brian Quintenz, of Ohio, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring April 13, 2029. David Rader, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce. Joel Rayburn, of Oklahoma, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Near Eastern Affairs). Kimberly Richey, of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Department of Education. Mary Riley, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary for Legislation and Congressional Affairs, Department of Education. Audrey Robertson, of Colorado, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy). Sarah Rogers, of New York, to be Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy. Reed Rubinstein, of Maryland, to be Legal Adviser of the Department of State. Kathleen Sgamma, of Colorado, to be Director of the Bureau of Land Management. Warren Stephens, of Arkansas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Michael Stuart, of West Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Health and Human Services. Aaron Szabo, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Richard Topping, of Ohio, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Veterans Affairs. Craig Trainor, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Olivia Trusty, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Federal Communications Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2025. Olivia Trusty, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of five years from July 1, 2025. (Reappointment) Matthew Whitaker, of Iowa, to be United States Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE: Luke Petit, of Washington, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. 
For Immediate Release January 22, 2025 NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE: Michael Boren, of Idaho, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment, vice Homer L. Wilkes, resigned. Steven Bradbury, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Transportation, vice Polly Ellen Trottenberg, resigned. William Briggs, of Texas, to be Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration, vice Dilawar Syed, resigned. James Danly, of Tennessee, to be Deputy Secretary of Energy, vice David Turk, resigned. Richard Fordyce, of Missouri, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and Conservation, vice Robert Farrell Bonnie, resigned. David Fotouhi, of Virginia, to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Janet Garvin McCabe. Kenneth Kies, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Lily Lawrence Batchelder. Michael Kratsios, of South Carolina, to be Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Arati Prabhakar. Paul Lawrence, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs, vice Tanya J. Bradsher, resigned. Katharine MacGregor, of Florida, to be Deputy Secretary of the Interior, vice Tommy P. Beaudreau, resigned. Casey Mulligan, of Illinois, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Darryl L. DePriest, resigned. William Pulte, of Florida, to be Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency for a term of five years, vice Sandra L. Thompson. Penny Schwinn, of Tennessee, to be Deputy Secretary of Education, vice Cynthia Minette Marten, resigned.
January 21, 2025 M-25-11 MEMORANDUM TO THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES FROM: Matthew J. Vaeth, Acting Director, Office of Management and Budget Kevin Hassett, Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Director of the National Economic Council SUBJECT: Guidance Regarding Section 7 of the Executive Order Unleashing American Energy The directive in section 7 of the Executive Order entitled Unleashing American Energy requires agencies to immediately pause disbursement of funds appropriated under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-169) or the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58). This pause only applies to funds supporting programs, projects, or activities that may be implicated by the policy established in Section 2 of the order. This interpretation is consistent with section 7’s heading (“Terminating the Green New Deal”) and its reference to the “law and the policy outlined in section 2 of th[e] order.” For the purposes of implementing section 7 of the Order, funds supporting the “Green New Deal” refer to any appropriations for objectives that contravene the policies established in section 2. Agency heads may disburse funds as they deem necessary after consulting with the Office of Management and Budget. 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. Article II of the United States Constitution vests the power to conduct foreign policy in the President of the United States. Presidents rely on their Secretaries of State and their subordinate officials to ensure that the United States is served and protected at home and abroad. As the principal steward of the President’s foreign policy, the Secretary must maintain an exceptional workforce of patriots to implement this policy effectively. Sec. 2. Policy. All officers or employees charged with implementing the foreign policy of the United States must under Article II do so under the direction and authority of the President. Failure to faithfully implement the President’s policy is grounds for professional discipline, including separation. The personnel procedures of executive departments and agencies (agencies) charged with implementing the President’s foreign policy must therefore provide an effective and efficient means for ensuring that officers and employees faithfully implement the President’s policies. Sec. 3. Definitions. For the purposes of this order:(a) the terms “Department,” “Foreign Service,” “Service,” and “Secretary” shall have the meaning given those terms by section 3902 of title 22, United States Code; and(b) the term “members of the Foreign Service” shall have the same meaning as “members of the Service” under section 3903 of title 22, United States Code.(c) the term “Civil Service employee” shall mean an employee of the Department holding United States citizenship, except for a member of the Foreign Service, as defined in section 2664a of title 22, United States Code.(d) the term “other staff” shall mean locally employed staff and agents under the authority of sections 202(a)(4)(A) (22 U.S.C. 3922(a)(4)(A)) and 303 (22 U.S.C. 3943) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, or special Government employees of the Department as defined in section 202(a) of title 18, United States Code. Sec. 4. Election of Procedures. When the Secretary concludes that a member of the Foreign Service, a Civil Service employee, or other staff has demonstrated performance or conduct that warrants a personnel action, the Secretary shall, with respect to officials appointed by the Secretary or others within the Department, take appropriate action, subject to the supervision of the President, and shall, with respect to officials appointed by the President, preliminarily determine whether to refer such a matter for the President’s consideration. Such preliminary determination shall be made in the Secretary’s sole and exclusive discretion. Sec. 5. Foreign Service Reform. (a) The Secretary shall, consistent with applicable law, reform the Foreign Service and the administration of foreign relations to ensure faithful and effective implementation of the President’s foreign policy agenda.(b) The Secretary shall, consistent with applicable law, implement reforms in recruiting, performance, evaluation, and retention standards, and the programs of the Foreign Service Institute, to ensure a workforce that is committed to faithful implementation of the President’s foreign policy.(c) In implementing the reforms identified in this section, the Secretary shall, consistent with applicable law, revise or replace the Foreign Affairs Manual and direct subordinate agencies to remove, amend, or replace any handbooks, procedures, or guidance.(d) The Secretary shall have sole and exclusive discretion in the exercise or delegation of the responsibilities enumerated in this order, and, as the Secretary deems necessary or appropriate, may prescribe additional procedures that subordinate officials shall follow in the performance of such responsibilities. Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 12, 2025.
January 20, 2025 National Security Presidential Memorandum/NSPM-1 SUBJECT: Organization of the National Security Council and Subcommittees By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, I hereby direct the following: As President, my highest priority and responsibility is to ensure the safety and security of the United States and its people. The national and homeland security threats facing the United States are complex and rapidly evolving. These issues often do not fit neatly into the categories that single departments and agencies are designed to optimally address, a fact recognized and exploited by our strategic competitors and adversaries in their adoption of whole-of-government and even whole-of-society approaches. The United States Government’s decision-making structures and processes to address national security challenges must therefore be equally adaptive and comprehensive. They must be able to competently design and execute cooperative and integrated interagency solutions to address these problems, and protect and advance the national interests of the United States. Therefore, to advise and assist me in this endeavor, I hereby direct that my system for national security policy development, decision-making, implementation, and monitoring shall be organized as set forth in this Memorandum. This Memorandum prevails over any prior orders, directives, memoranda, or other Presidential guidance related to the organization of the National Security Council (NSC or Council). A. The National Security Council and Supporting Staff 1. Functions, Responsibilities, and Chairs. (a) Functions and Responsibilities. The National Security Act of 1947, as amended (the Act), established the NSC to advise the President with respect to the integration of domestic, foreign, and military policies relating to national security. The Homeland Security Council (HSC) has the distinct purpose of advising the President on matters pertaining to homeland security. The NSC shall convene as the HSC on topic areas agreed to in advance by the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (National Security Advisor) and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security (Homeland Security Advisor). Along with its subordinate committees and staff, the NSC shall be the President’s principal means for coordinating Executive departments and agencies in the development and implementation of national and homeland security policies, strategies, activities, and functions, their integration across departments and agencies within their purview, and for long-term strategic planning. (b) Chairs. The President will chair the NSC. When the President is absent from a meeting of the Council, he may appoint a Cabinet-level official to chair. 2. NSC Staffing Responsibilities of the National Security Advisor. (a) Role of the National Security Advisor. The National Security Advisor shall be responsible, as appropriate and at the President’s direction, for determining the agenda for the NSC, ensuring that the necessary papers are prepared, and recording and communicating Council actions and Presidential decisions in a timely manner. (b) Role of the Homeland Security Advisor. When convened as the HSC, the duties referenced in subsection (2)(a) shall be the responsibility of the Homeland Security Advisor. 3. Designating NSC Members, Attendees, and Invitees. (a) Membership. The NSC membership consists of the statutory members set forth in section 101(c)(1) of the Act (50 U.S.C. 3021(c)(1)): and additional members hereby designated by the President pursuant to section 101(c)(1) of the Act: When the NSC convenes as the HSC, members shall also include: 13) The Homeland Security Advisor. (b) NSC Meeting Attendees. The National Security Advisor retains the discretion to determine the attendee list for all meetings of the NSC, including by requesting the attendance of any senior official of the Executive Branch. The Homeland Security Advisor retains this same discretion when the NSC convenes as the HSC. This discretion shall be exercised based on the policy relevance of attendees to the issues being considered, the need for secrecy on sensitive matters, staffing requirements, and other considerations. As regular practice, the National Security Advisor and Homeland Security Advisor shall include as additional non-voting attendees: (c) NSC Regular Invitees. Unless specifically restricted, these officials are invited to attend any NSC and HSC meeting as non-voting advisors: 4. Right to Propose Agenda Items. Any NSC member attending a meeting in a voting capacity may propose, in advance and in accordance with a timeline set by the National Security Advisor or his designee, agenda items for their consideration.[1] The National Security Advisor will determine whether to include these items on the agenda. The Homeland Security Advisor shall have this same discretion when the Council is convened as the HSC. 5. The National Security Council Staff. (a) Staff Fusion. There is a single NSC staff within the Executive Office of the President (EOP) that serves both the NSC on national security matters and the HSC when the Council is considering homeland security matters. The staff is headed by a single Executive Secretary, in accordance with section 101(e)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3021(e)(1)) and section 905 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 495). (b) Purpose. The purposes of the National Security Advisor and subordinate staff are to (i) advise and assist the President in the course of conducting activities that relate to or affect the carrying out of the President’s constitutional, statutory, or other official or ceremonial duties pertaining to national or homeland security, pursuant to the Presidential Records Act of 1978, as amended;[2] (ii) advise and assist the other members of the NSC (and the NSC when convening as the HSC), and others in the White House; (iii) help the President plan and set priorities, in accordance with section II of the Message of the President in the Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977; (iv) advise and make recommendations to the President with respect to, and establish, integrated domestic, foreign, and military policies and procedures for the departments, agencies, and functions of the Government relating to national and homeland security, pursuant to sections 2 and 101(b)(1) of the Act (50 U.S.C. 3002, 3021(b)(1)); (v) coordinate, facilitate, monitor, oversee, and review Administration policies and their implementation with respect to national security, and make resulting recommendations to the President; (vi) help the President resolve major conflicts among departments and agencies with regard to national security, in accordance with section II of the Message of the President in the Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977. (c) Fair, Balanced, and Thorough Processes. In accordance with sections I and II of the Message of the President in the Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977, the NSC staff shall ensure that the processes it organizes, coordinates, and manages fairly and thoroughly gather the facts, intelligence, and other relevant information necessary to NSC decisions; fully analyze the issues; consider a full range of views and options; assess the prospects, risks, costs, and implications of each option; and distill these options for the President, other NSC principals, and senior officials participating in the subsidiary committees of the NSC or HSC, in a fair, balanced, and organized way. The National Security Advisor and subordinate NSC staff shall represent the views and differences of NSC principals and other senior officials to the President with accuracy and fidelity. (d) Policy Development. In accordance with sections I and II of the Message of the President in the Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977,[8] the NSC staff shall facilitate the development and refinement of interagency policy options, and develop additional options besides those proposed by departments and agencies as necessary, both to complement, supplement, and enhance their work, and to offer the President and other NSC principals and other senior officials a sufficiently broad menu of operationally feasible options for consideration, deliberation, and decision. B. The Principals Committee 1. Principals Committee Establishment. (a) (i) Functions and Responsibilities. The Principals Committee (PC) shall continue to serve as the Cabinet-level senior interagency forum for considering policy issues that affect the national security interests of the United States. The PC shall develop options and recommendations for the President on national security and homeland security matters requiring the President’s attention, and with the Committee’s full consensus shall set priorities, issue policy guidance, and facilitate coordination and integration on national security policy and implementation issues as appropriate that do not require Presidential attention.[9] Issues involving matters that are statutorily authorized for decision by a principal, or delegated to a principal by the President, can be coordinated and decided by the principals without requiring Presidential attention. (ii) Voting and NSC Referral. Consensus is reached when all voting (i.e., non-advisory) attendees present either vote affirmatively for the same decisional option or formally abstain, and all such votes shall be recorded and minuted. Issues for which the Committee fails to reach consensus shall be referred to the NSC for decision, with a formal nonconcurrence required by at least one non-advisory attendee present for such a referral. Whether an issue requires Presidential attention, and the Committee attendees’ positions on the issue itself, shall be separately polled. If a voting attendee does not concur with the determination that Presidential consideration is not required, the issue shall be referred, along with the results of the PC’s deliberation on the issue itself and its recommendations, to deliberation by the NSC. (b) Role of the National Security Advisor. The PC shall be convened and chaired by the National Security Advisor. The Chair shall determine the agenda, location, and meeting materials, in consultation with the appropriate attendees. (c) Substitute Chairs. At his sole discretion, the National Security Advisor may delegate authority to convene and chair or co-chair the PC to an appropriate attendee of the NSC or EOP policy council senior official. The Homeland Security Advisor, who is Chair when the PC considers matters that would be raised to the NSC convening as the HSC, may similarly delegate such duties. (d) Right to Propose Agenda Items. Any PC member attending in a voting capacity may propose, in advance and in accordance with a timeline set by the Chair, agenda items for consideration by the PC. The Chair will determine which, if any, shall be included. 2. Executive Secretary Responsibilities and Process. (a) Responsibilities. The Executive Secretary shall ensure that the necessary papers are prepared, serve as executive secretary of the PC, and shall record and communicate accurately, and in a timely manner, the Committee’s conclusions and decisions, what was not decided, and any responsibilities for implementation by departments and agencies or taskings to the Deputies Committee or subsidiary policy coordination committees that have been agreed or assigned, if appropriate.[10] The Executive Secretary shall generally be assisted in these tasks by the senior directors and other NSC staff by the senior directors and other NSC staff. (b) Dispute Resolution Process. If a PC voting attendee disputes that the conclusions or decisions of the PC were correctly minuted, this must be communicated in writing to the Executive Secretary and the National Security Advisor (and any substitute Chair if appropriate) within three business days, although those officials may allow additional time if exigent or extenuating circumstances require it. If resolution of the dispute cannot be achieved, and any necessary amended report of the PC proceedings was issued within a week of the dispute being communicated, the disputing attendee may appeal the matter to the White House Chief of Staff or, should that official so designate, to the White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, whose decision shall be final. 3. Principals Committee Attendees and Invitees. (a) Principals Committee Attendees. (i) The National Security Advisor retains the discretion to determine the attendee list for all PC meetings on national security. The Homeland Security Advisor retains this same discretion when chairing the PC. This discretion shall be exercised based on the policy relevance of attendees to the issues being considered, the need for secrecy on sensitive matters, staffing needs, and other considerations. As regular practice, the National Security Advisor and Homeland Security Advisor shall include as additional non-voting attendees: 1) The Director of National Intelligence; 2) The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; 3) The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency; 4) The Principal Deputy National Security Advisor; 5) the National Security Advisor to the Vice President; and 6) The Executive Secretary (principal notetaker). (ii) PC Regular Invitees. Unless specifically restricted, these officials are invited to attend any PC meeting as non-voting advisors: (iii) Staffing Invitees. At the discretion of the Chair, staff members of the NSC or other appropriate EOP policy councils may be invited to attend specific PC meetings to assist the Executive Secretary in the performance of their executive secretary duties. C. The Deputies Committee 1. Deputies Committee Establishment. (a) Functions and Responsibilities. The Deputies Committee (DC) shall continue to serve as the senior sub-Cabinet interagency forum for consideration of and, where appropriate, decision making on, policy issues that affect the national security interests of the United States. The DC shall review and monitor the work of the interagency national security process, including the interagency groups established pursuant to section D below. The DC shall work to ensure that issues brought before the NSC, the NSC when convening as the HSC, and the PC have been properly analyzed and prepared for decision. The DC shall also focus significant attention on monitoring the implementation of these policies and decisions and shall conduct periodic reviews of the Administration’s major national security and foreign policy initiatives. (b) Role of the Principal Deputy National Security Advisor. The DC shall be convened and chaired by the Principal Deputy National Security Advisor. The Chair shall determine the location, agenda, and meeting materials in consultation with the DC attendees. (c) Substitute Chairs. At his sole discretion, the Principal Deputy National Security Advisor may delegate authority to convene and chair or co-chair the DC to an appropriate regular attendee of the DC or other appropriate EOP official. The Deputy Assistant to the President for Homeland Security (Deputy Homeland Security Advisor) shall chair meetings when considering issues that would be raised when the NSC is convened as the HSC. The Deputy Homeland Security Advisor has similar delegatory authority. (d) Right to Propose Agenda Items. Any DC member attending in a voting capacity may propose, in advance and in accordance with a timeline set by the Chair, agenda items for consideration by the DC. The Chair will determine which, if any, shall be included. 2. Executive Secretary Responsibilities and Process. (a) General. The Executive Secretary shall ensure that the necessary papers are prepared, and shall record and communicate accurately, and in a timely manner, the Committee’s conclusions and decisions, what was not decided, and any responsibilities for implementation by departments and agencies or taskings to subsidiary policy coordination committees that have been agreed or assigned, if appropriate. The Executive Secretary shall generally be assisted in this task by the senior directors and other NSC staff. (b) Dispute Resolution Process. If a DC voting attendee disputes that the conclusions or decisions of the DC were correctly minuted, this must be communicated in writing to the Executive Secretary and the Principal Deputy National Security Advisor or the Deputy Homeland Security Advisor, as relevant, within three business days, although those officials may allow additional time if exigent or extenuating circumstances require it. If resolution of the dispute cannot be achieved, and any necessary amended report of the PC proceedings issued within a week of the dispute being communicated, the disputing attendee may appeal the matter to the White House Chief of Staff, or should that official so designate, the White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, whose decision shall be final. 3. Designating Deputies Committee Regular Attendees and Invitees. (a) Deputies Committee Attendees. The Principal Deputy National Security Advisor retains the discretion to determine the attendee list for all DC meetings. The Deputy Homeland Security Advisor retains this same discretion when chairing DC meetings. This discretion shall be exercised based on the policy relevance of attendees to the issues being considered, the need for secrecy on sensitive matters, staffing needs, and other considerations. As regular practice, the Principal Deputy National Security Advisor shall include as DC attendees: When homeland security issues are on the DC agenda, the DC’s regular attendees will also include: 11) The Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security; and 12) The Deputy Homeland Security Advisor (chair). (b) DC Regular Invitees. These officials are invited to attend any DC meeting: D. Policy Coordination Committees Management of the development and implementation of national security policies by multiple Executive departments and agencies typically shall be accomplished by Policy Coordination Committees (PCCs), with participation primarily occurring at the Assistant Secretary level. As the main day-to-day fora for interagency coordination and integration of national security policies, PCCs shall develop and provide policy options and analyses for consideration by higher echelon committees of the national security system. PCCs shall ensure timely responses to, and implementation and monitoring of, decisions, directives, objectives, instructions, inquiries, tasking, and policy guidance of and by the President, National Security Advisor, and the higher-echelon committees of the national security system. PCCs shall be established at the direction of the National Security Advisor or Homeland Security Advisor, in consultation with the White House Chief of Staff or her designee. Members of the NSC staff will chair the PCCs. PCCs shall review, coordinate, integrate, and monitor the implementation of Presidential decisions in their respective national security and homeland security policy areas. The Chair of each PCC, in consultation with the Executive Secretary, shall invite representatives of departments and agencies to attend meetings of the PCC where appropriate. The Chair of each PCC, with the agreement of the Executive Secretary, may establish subordinate working groups to assist that PCC in the performance of its duties. Interagency Policy Committees (IPCs) chartered under the aegis of the process established by National Security Memorandum-2 (NSM–2) may continue to be operated as PCCs by the NSC staff until renewed or discontinued by the National Security Advisor. E. General (a) The President and the Vice President may attend any meeting of any entity established by or under this directive. (b) This document is part of a series of National Security Policy Memoranda, which have replaced both National Security Memoranda and National Security Study Memoranda as the instrument for communicating relevant Presidential decisions. This directive shall supersede all other existing Presidential directives and guidance on the organization or support of the NSC and the HSC where they conflict, including National Security Memorandum–2 of February 4, 2021 (Memorandum on Renewing the National Security Council System), which is hereby revoked. This document shall be interpreted in concert with any Presidential directives governing other policy councils and offices in the EOP mentioned herein, and with any Presidential directives signed hereafter that implement this document or those Presidential directives.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose and Policy. Since its enactment in 1977, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 78dd-1 et seq.) (FCPA) has been systematically, and to a steadily increasing degree, stretched beyond proper bounds and abused in a manner that harms the interests of the United States. Current FCPA enforcement impedes the United States’ foreign policy objectives and therefore implicates the President’s Article II authority over foreign affairs. The President’s foreign policy authority is inextricably linked with the global economic competitiveness of American companies. American national security depends in substantial part on the United States and its companies gaining strategic business advantages whether in critical minerals, deep-water ports, or other key infrastructure or assets. But overexpansive and unpredictable FCPA enforcement against American citizens and businesses — by our own Government — for routine business practices in other nations not only wastes limited prosecutorial resources that could be dedicated to preserving American freedoms, but actively harms American economic competitiveness and, therefore, national security. It is therefore the policy of my Administration to preserve the Presidential authority to conduct foreign affairs and advance American economic and national security by eliminating excessive barriers to American commerce abroad. Sec. 2. Policy of Enforcement Discretion. (a) For a period of 180 days following the date of this order, the Attorney General shall review guidelines and policies governing investigations and enforcement actions under the FCPA. During the review period, the Attorney General shall: (i) cease initiation of any new FCPA investigations or enforcement actions, unless the Attorney General determines that an individual exception should be made; (ii) review in detail all existing FCPA investigations or enforcement actions and take appropriate action with respect to such matters to restore proper bounds on FCPA enforcement and preserve Presidential foreign policy prerogatives; and (iii) issue updated guidelines or policies, as appropriate, to adequately promote the President’s Article II authority to conduct foreign affairs and prioritize American interests, American economic competitiveness with respect to other nations, and the efficient use of Federal law enforcement resources. (b) The Attorney General may extend such review period for an additional 180 days as the Attorney General determines appropriate. (c) FCPA investigations and enforcement actions initiated or continued after the revised guidelines or policies are issued under subsection (a) of this section: (i) shall be governed by such guidelines or policies; and (ii) must be specifically authorized by the Attorney General. (d) After the revised guidelines or policies are issued under subsection (a) of this section, the Attorney General shall determine whether additional actions, including remedial measures with respect to inappropriate past FCPA investigations and enforcement actions, are warranted and shall take any such appropriate actions or, if Presidential action is required, recommend such actions to the President. Sec. 3. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 10, 2025.
Today, President Donald J. Trump declared that an emergency exists in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and ordered Federal assistance to supplement Commonwealth and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from severe storms, straight-line winds, flooding, and landslides beginning on February 14, 2025, and continuing. The President’s action authorizes the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), to coordinate all disaster relief efforts which have the purpose of alleviating the hardship and suffering caused by the emergency on the local population. FEMA will provide appropriate assistance for required emergency measures, authorized under Title V of the Stafford Act, to save lives and to protect property and public health and safety, and to lessen or avert the threat of a catastrophe in all 120 counties of the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Specifically, FEMA is authorized to identify, mobilize, and provide, at its discretion, equipment and resources necessary to alleviate the impacts of the emergency. Emergency protective measures, limited to direct federal assistance, will be provided at 75 percent Federal funding. Mr. Jeremy Slinker of FEMA has been appointed to coordinate Federal recovery operations in the affected areas. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION MEDIA SHOULD CONTACT THE FEMA NEWS DESK AT (202) 646-3272 OR FEMA-NEWS-DESK@FEMA.DHS.GOV. 
After years of being wrongfully detained in a Russian prison, U.S. citizen Marc Fogel is finally home thanks to the relentless efforts by President Donald Trump and his administration to secure his release — making good on a promise President Donald Trump made to Fogel’s 95-year-old mother, Malphine. Fogel said it best: “President Trump is a hero … I will forever be indebted to President Trump, to Steve [Witkoff] over there — what a dynamic man this guy is. When I met him, the energy, the can-do attitude just exudes from his body.” His release was met with immediate praise from Fogel’s family and a bipartisan group of officials and lawmakers: The Fogel Family: “We are beyond grateful, relieved, and overwhelmed that after more than three years of detention, our father, husband, and son, Marc Fogel, is finally coming home … Thanks to the unwavering leadership of President Trump, Marc will soon be back on American soil, free where he belongs. This has been the darkest and most painful period of our lives, but today, we begin to heal.” Malphine Fogel: “I would like to thank [President Trump] profusely. He promised me he would get him out — and he kept his promise, and I can’t thank him enough.” Anne Fogel: “[President Trump] was true to his word. It’s amazing. It’s just such a different relationship and I’m just so incredibly grateful to the president.” Fogel lawyers Martin De Luca and Andrew Smith: “Marc Fogel’s release is historic, long overdue, and a testament to the power of strong leadership. After years of bureaucratic inaction including consistent refusals to designate Marc as wrongfully detained, President Trump secured Marc’s release in just a few weeks, wasting no time in taking decisive action to bring Marc home.” Gov. Josh Shapiro (D-PA): “After more than 3 years in Russian captivity, I join his family, our federal partners, and all of his fellow Pennsylvanians in welcoming Marc Fogel home — exactly where he belongs. Thank you to those at the @WhiteHouse who made his release possible, and to his wife Jane, mom, siblings, and kids here in Pennsylvania who never, ever gave up.” Sen. John Fetterman (D-PA): “Marc Fogel’s return home is long overdue—and I know all of Pennsylvania, especially his family, will be welcoming him back with open arms. I want to thank @POTUS and @SteveWitkoff for their efforts in finally bringing Marc home.” Sen. Dave McCormick (R-PA): “Thank you @POTUS for bringing Marc home! All of Pennsylvania is happy he is back safely, especially his amazing 95 year old mom, Mafa, who never stopped fighting for his release. Dina and I were honored to witness this emotional and historic moment tonight at the White House.” Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA): “When President Trump met with Marc Fogel’s mother, Malphine, in Butler on July 13, 2024, he pledged to do everything he could to bring Marc home safely. Today, President Trump, Secretary Rubio, and the Trump administration have fulfilled this promise. I want to thank President Trump for successfully securing Marc’s release and for reuniting the Fogel family.” Rep. GT Thompson (R-PA): “After more than three and a half long years of detention, Marc Fogel is finally on his way home from Russia. Thank you to President Trump, Secretary Rubio, and the President’s Special Envoy Steve Witkoff for their urgency and dedication to bringing Marc home.” Former U.S. Ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul: “Hallelujah! Fantastic news! Praise be to President Donald Trump … This is just fantastic news for anybody who cares about patriotic Americans.” Secretary of State Marco Rubio: “None of this is possible without President Trump. This is the tenth America that’s come home after being detained somewhere overseas — in just three weeks in the White House.” Special Envoy Steve Witkoff: “The president’s policy on Americans that are held abroad is that we leave nobody behind. It’s very similar to the military credo … I think that you’ll see a President who is extraordinarily proactive in seeking all hostages to be released.” ### 
An American citizen held hostage in Belarus has been released thanks to the leadership of President Donald J. Trump and his administration — the second American released from captivity abroad in the past 24 hours and the eleventh since President Trump took office. The remarkable success in freeing American citizens comes as the United States displays a renewed strength under President Trump. In the words of Special Envoy for Hostage Affairs Adam Boehler, President Trump “has made bringing Americans home a top priority and people respond to that.” Promises made, promises kept. 
On Wednesday, January 29, 2025, the President signed into law:S. 5, the “Laken Riley Act,” which requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to take into custody aliens who have been charged in the United States with theft, and for other purposes.
By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation Today, our Nation commemorates the Father of our country, the patriarch of our freedom, and a timeless exemplar of valor and virtue: the first President of the United States, George Washington. On President Washington’s Birthday, we honor his heroic legacy and steadfast love of country. As our Nation’s first chief executive, President Washington was a key architect of our Federal Government and constitutional order. He was a visionary unifier, a fierce advocate for an America First foreign policy, and a man of devout faith. To this day, he lives on in our souls as the original American patriot, the face of the American Revolution, and a legendary titan of American liberty. Through his presidency, private life, and personal conduct, George Washington was a model of public service and a living reminder that no challenge is too great for the strength of the American spirit. In the winter of 1776, with the Revolutionary War raging and the Continental Army on the verge of collapse, General Washington refused to surrender. Low on supplies and teetering on the edge of defeat, he carried on, writing “Victory or Death” before departing for battle. In the waning hours of Christmas night, Washington’s Continental Army ventured through miles of ice-cold darkness with nothing but patriotism in their hearts, courage in their veins, and faith in their God — going on to defeat the enemy and forever change the course of history. President Washington’s unflinching devotion to the common good remains the mandate of every American citizen. As my Administration continues the work of reforming our country, we look to George Washington, the sacrifices he made, and the victories he won. NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim February 17, 2025, as a reserved holiday commemorating George Washington’s Birthday. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.
Pursuant to the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including but not limited to 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq., I hereby direct the following individuals to perform the functions and duties of the indicated positions in an acting capacity until the position is filled by appointment. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025. 
Today, President Donald J. Trump announced new appointments to the Council of Governors, a bipartisan group of state leaders tasked with strengthening state-federal partnerships on key national security, disaster response, and military coordination issues. Appointed Members About the Council of GovernorsThe Council of Governors was established by the National Defense Authorization Act of 2008 and formally created by Executive Order 13528 in 2010. It serves as a key forum for governors and federal officials to enhance collaboration on disaster response, National Guard operations, and military integration within the states. 
President Donald Trump announced appointments to the White House Faith Office.Pastor Paula White-Cain will return to the White House as a Special Government Employee and Senior Advisor of the newly created White House Faith Office. In the last 40 years, White-Cain has expanded her influence globally in almost 200 countries, ministering, fighting for religious freedom and humanitarian rights, and advocating for the voiceless. She is the founder and president of Paula White Ministries and National Faith Advisory Board. She is president of City Destiny and the overseer and a teaching pastor at StoryLife Church in Florida. Paula previously served an advisor to President Trump in the White House Faith and Opportunity Initiative. She also served as chairwoman of the Evangelical Advisory Board (2016). Paula is a celebrated New York Times best-selling author, teacher, beloved wife, mother, grandmother, mentor, popular TV personality, and spirit-led preacher of God’s Word. She is married to legendary singer/songwriter Jonathan Cain of the iconic Rock & Roll Hall of Fame band Journey.Jennifer S. Korn will return to the White House as a Deputy Assistant to the President and Faith Director of the newly created White House Faith Office after serving as Senior Advisor of National Faith Advisory Board, America’s largest faith coalition. Korn previously served President Trump all four years as Deputy Director of the White House Office of Public Liaison and during the 2016 Presidential Election leading Latino, Minority, Faith, Veteran and other coalition engagement for historic gains among these communities. Korn has served two decades working to elect officials and implement policies at the national and state levels to improve the lives of these important constituencies. Korn is also a proud military spouse. Jackson Lane will join the White House as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Faith Engagement after serving as the Deputy Director of Faith Outreach for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign.
Alex Meyer will join the White House as a Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. Meyer previously served as the Deputy Political Director for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign directly managing President Trump’s victorious operations in the battleground states of Georgia, North Carolina, and Pennsylvania. Meyer in the 2024 Presidential Primary served as the Senior Advisor for President Trump’s Iowa Caucus Campaign. Meyer brings over a decade of successful campaign experience up and down the ballot. Jared Borg will join the White House as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs for State Governments. Jared is a campaign veteran of both President Trump’s 2020 and 2024 campaigns. He has also been a part of several high-profile national races throughout his career. Borg is a graduate of The Ohio State University and is a United States Navy Veteran. Christine Serrano Glassner will join the White House as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs for Local and Tribal Governments. Prior to joining the White House, she served as Mayor of the Borough of Mendham, New Jersey for the last six years and on Council for two years. Connor Reardon will join the White House as Associate Director in the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. Prior to this role, Reardon served as Pennsylvania State Director for the Republican National Committee and, most recently, as Pennsylvania Director of Operations for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign. Chase Wilson will join the White House as Associate Director in the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. Prior to joining the White House, Wilson served as State Director of Oklahoma during the 2024 Presidential Primary and then Deputy State Director in North Carolina for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign. Michael Silvio will join the White House as Associate Director in the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. Most recently, Michael served as the Nevada State Director for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign. Prior to that, Michael served as Political Director for Trump-endorsed Daniel Cameron for Governor (KY). Sam Martinez will join the White House as Associate Director in the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. Prior to joining the White House, Martinez served as Pennsylvania Deputy State Director for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign. Hope Moreland will join the White House as Deputy Associate Director in the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. Prior to joining the White House, Moreland served as Iowa Political Coordinator and Fulton County Field Director for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign. Finley Varughese will join the White House as Coordinator in the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. Prior to joining the White House, he served as Programming & Political Manager and Regional Political Coordinator at the Republican National Committee. Elizabeth McAlindon will join the White House as Staff Assistant in the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. Prior to joining the White House, McAlindon served as Assistant to the Chief of Staff for U.S. Senator Marsha Blackburn (TN). About the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs:The White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs (IGA) reports to Assistant to the President and White House Deputy Chief of Staff James Blair. The Office is managed by Deputy Assistant to the President and IGA Director Alex Meyer. The White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs serves as the Administration’s principal liaison to state, local, tribal, and territorial governments, fostering an open channel for advancing key administration priorities and interagency coordination.
Jordan Cox will serve as Special Assistant to the President in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs for the U.S. House of Representatives. Prior to this role, he worked as Executive Director of Political Operations for House Republican Chief Deputy Whip Guy Reschenthaler. Andrew (Drew) Dziedzic: Drew Dziedzic will serve as Special Assistant to the President in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs for the U.S. Senate. Prior to joining the White House, he served as Legislative Director for Sen. Eric Schmitt (MO). Taylor LaJoie: Taylor LaJoie will serve as Special Assistant to the President in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs for the U.S. Senate. He has worked on Capitol Hill in a variety of legislative roles, including Senior Legislative Assistant to then-Senator JD Vance (OH), as well as Legislative Director in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Natalie McIntyre: Natalie McIntyre will serve as the Special Assistant to the President in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs for the U.S. Senate. Previously, Natalie was the Legislative Director for Senator Bill Hagerty (TN). Prior to joining the Senator’s office, she was the Deputy to the Associate Director for Legislative Affairs at the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) during the first Trump Administration. She previously served as the Senior Policy Advisor and White House Liaison at the Office of National Drug Control Policy. Jack Rosemond: Jack Rosemond will serve as Special Assistant to the President in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs for the U.S. House of Representatives. Prior to joining the White House, he served as Senior Advisor to Chairman Jason Smith (MO) at the House Ways and Means Committee, where he previously held the position of Director of Member Services. Stephen Siao: Stephen Siao will serve as Special Assistant to the President in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs for the U.S. House of Representatives. He most recently served as Staff Director of the U.S. House Committee on Homeland Security and as Chief of Staff to U.S. Congressman Mark Green (TN). About the Office of Legislative Affairs: The Office of Legislative Affairs (OLA) reports to Assistant to the President and White House Deputy Chief of Staff James Blair. The Office is managed by Deputy Assistant to the President and OLA Director James Braid. Braid has three OLA Deputy Directors, Deputy Assistants to the President Jay Fields (internal lead), Jeff Freeland (House lead), and Pace McMullan (Senate lead). White House Legislative Affairs Liaisons are commissioned as Special Assistants to the President and report up to the Deputy OLA Director that leads their respective portfolios. 
Trevor Naglieri will join the White House as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the Office of Political Affairs. Naglieri previously served as Political Budget, Paid Voter Contact, & External Campaigns Research Director for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign in the General Election, and as New Hampshire State Director for Donald J. Trump for President in the Primary Campaign. Christopher Escobedo will join the White House as Special Assistant to the President and Western Regional Political Director of the Office of Political Affairs. Escobedo previously served as State Director in the battleground state of Arizona for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign. Jon George will join the White House as Special Assistant to the President and Southeast Regional Political Director of the Office of Political Affairs. George previously served as State Director in the battleground state of Georgia for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign. Marshall Moreau will join the White House as Special Assistant to the President and Midwest Regional Political Director of the Office of Political Affairs. Moreau previously served as National Volunteer Director for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign in the General Election, and as Iowa State Director for Donald J. Trump for President in the Primary Campaign. Ashley Walukevich will join the White House as Special Assistant to the President and Northeast Regional Political Director of the Office of Political Affairs. Walukevich previously served as State Director in the battleground state of Pennsylvania for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign. Samantha Feldman will join the White House as a Staff Assistant in the Office of Political Affairs. Feldman previously served as an Election Integrity Data Coordinator for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign. Jack Mahoney will join the White House as a Political Coordinator in the Office of Political Affairs. Mahoney previously served as an associate for Fabrizio, Lee & Associates during the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign. Trey Senecal will join the White House as a Political Coordinator in the Office of Political Affairs. Senecal previously served as Political Coordinator for the National Republican Congressional Committee. About the Office of Political Affairs: The White House Office of Political Affairs (OPA) reports to Assistant to the President and White House Deputy Chief of Staff, James Blair. The Office is managed by Deputy Assistant to the President and OPA Director, Matt Brasseaux. The White House Office of Political Affairs serves as the chief correspondent between state and national political affairs across the country and the Administration, with an emphasis on educating and communicating the President’s legislative agenda to the American people. 
President Trump announced key appointments to the White House Office of Communications, Public Liaison, and Cabinet Affairs, which will be overseen by Deputy Chief of Staff for Communications and Public Liaison, and Cabinet Secretary Taylor Budowich. COMMUNICATIONS President Trump previously announced the appointments of Assistant to the President and White House Communications Director Steven Cheung and Assistant to the President and Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt. Today’s announcements include: Alex Pfeiffer will join the White House as a Deputy Assistant to the President and Principal Deputy Communications Director after previously serving as a Communications Adviser for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign and Communications Director for MAGA Inc. Pfeiffer previously served as an Investigative and Editorial Producer for Fox News’ Tucker Carlson Tonight. Kaelan Dorr will return to the White House as a Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Communications Director after serving as Senior Strategist and Spokesperson for MAGA Inc. Dorr previously served as Senior Advisor for Public Affairs at the Department of Treasury, Congressional Communications Director and Strategic Communications Advisor in the Executive Office of the President in the Trump Administration, Global Head of Marketing and Engagement for GETTR, Vice President of Communications for America First Policy Institute, and Chief Marketing Officer for Donald J. Trump for President. Harrison Fields will return to the White House as Special Assistant to the President and Principal Deputy Press Secretary, having previously served as Assistant Press Secretary in the Trump Administration. Fields has also served as Senior Advisor to Congressman Byron Donalds and Assistant Director of Media and Public Relations at The Heritage Foundation. Anna Kelly will join the White House as a Deputy Press Secretary after serving as National Press Secretary for the Republican National Committee. Previously, Kelly was Communications Director for Congressman Derrick Van Orden, Michels for Governor, and the Republican Party of Wisconsin. Kush Desai will serve as a Deputy Press Secretary after serving as Deputy Battleground States & Pennsylvania Communications Director at the Republican National Committee. Desai also served as Deputy Communications Director for the 2024 Republican National Convention and Communications Director for the Republican Party of Iowa. Ian Kelley will join the White House as Special Assistant to the President and War Room Director after serving as War Room Director for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign. Previously, Ian worked as Rapid Response Manager for the social media platform GETTR. Dylan Johnson will join the White House as Special Assistant to the President and Assistant Communications Director for Special Projects after serving as a Deputy Director of Communications for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign. Johnson previously served as the Campaign Manager for the Greitens for U.S. Senate campaign and was an Executive Producer for Just The News. Sonny Joy Nelson will join the White House as Special Assistant to the President and Media Affairs Director, after serving as Director of Media Affairs and Surrogates for the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign. Previously, Nelson served as Director of Media Affairs for the social media platform GETTR, Booking Producer for Real America’s Voice, Director of Media Affairs for the Republican National Committee, and Associate Director of Strategic Communications for Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. Dan Boyle will join the White House as the White House Director of Research after serving as a Research Consultant on the Trump-Vance 2024 Campaign, and previously as Director of Research for MAGA Inc. Boyle previously served as the Research Director for Citizens United and as a Research Analyst for the Government Accountability Institute. Johanna Persing will join the White House as Cabinet Communications Director after playing an integral role in the Trump-Vance 2024 campaign’s surrogate operation, including leading the media booking operation at the 2024 Republican Convention in Milwaukee. Persing previously served as the Deputy Communications Director for the Republican National Committee and as Communications Director for Congressman Ryan Costello. Charyssa Parent will join the White House as Congressional Communications Director after serving as the Communications Director for Senator Roger Marshall. Parent previously served as the Deputy Director of Communications for the House Republican Conference and as the Director of Broadcast Media for the Republican National Committee. Jacki Kotkiewicz will join the White House as Policy Communications Director after working as a Vice President at Argus Insight. Kotkiewicz previously served as the Director of Policy Research at the Republican National Committee and was a Research Analyst on the Trump 2020 campaign. Jake Schneider will join the White House as Rapid Response Director after serving as Rapid Response Director for the Trump-Vance Campaign. Schneider previously served as the Deputy Director of Rapid Response for the 2020 Trump campaign and as Communications Director and Press Secretary for Congresswoman Michelle Fischbach. OFFICE OF PUBLIC LIAISON Jim Goyer will return to the White House as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public Liaison. Goyer served President Donald J. Trump in his first Administration as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the Office of Public Liaison. Goyer previously served as Political Coordinator at the National Republican Senatorial Committee. Goyer is joining from Goldman Sachs, where he served as an Associate of Asset and Wealth Management.Lynne Patton will serve as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Minority Outreach, where she will be charged with ensuring that President Trump continues to build upon his historic Election Day support from Blacks, Latinos and Women. Patton served as Senior Advisor on the Trump Campaign and has been one of the Trump family’s longest serving and most trusted aides. Prior to joining the Trump campaign, Patton was the Regional Administrator for Federal Region II at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and Senior Advisor to Secretary Ben Carson. At HUD, Lynne worked tirelessly to bring accountability, reform and results to some of the most challenging housing issues facing our country. From championing the rights of underserved communities to exposing corruption and mismanagement within public housing systems, Lynne consistently fought for fairness and opportunity, earning her the bipartisan respect of industry peers and local elected officials alike. Lynne’s deep connection to the issues affecting minority communities combined with her remarkable interpersonal skills, makes her the ideal person to lead this critical outreach effort. She holds a B.S. from the University of Miami and attended Quinnipiac University, School of Law. Brette Powell will return to the White House as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the Office of Public Liaison, having previously served for three years in the White House Management Office and the Advance Office in the Trump Administration. Powell previously served the President for four years through his Save America PAC and the Trump-Vance 2024 campaign as the Director of Strategic Political Stakeholder Engagement. Hailey Borden will return to the White House as Special Assistant to the President and Director of Business Outreach in the Office of Public Liaison, having previously served as Associate Director of the Office of Public Liaison in the Trump Administration. Borden previously was Director of Coalitions and Member Services on the House Committee on Small Business and is currently the Director of Business Coalitions for House Majority Whip Tom Emmer. Alex Flemister will return to the White House as Director of Strategic Initiatives in the Office of Public Liaison, having previously served as Associate Director in the Office of Public Liaison in the Trump Administration. Flemister previously worked for Governor Sarah Huckabee Sanders on her campaign as Advisor and Director of Operations and worked in her official governor’s office as the Director of Office Appointments. Flemister is currently the Founder and President of The Flemister Group. CABINET AFFAIRS Lea Bardon will join the White House as a Special Assistant to the President and Director of Cabinet Affairs. Bardon previously served as Director of Development Operations at the America First Policy Institute. Bardon also served on President Trump’s reelection campaign in 2020 and as Executive Roundtable Manager at the Republican Attorneys General Association. Thomas Bradbury will join the White House as Associate Director for Policy. Bradbury is currently the Director of Advocacy and Policy at American Conservative Union (CPAC). Cami Connor will return to the White House as Associate Director for Agency Outreach, having previously served as Associate Director of Agency Outreach in the first Trump Administration. Connor currently serves on the Government Operations team at The Boeing Company.
To the Senate of the United States, I nominate Scott Bessent, of South Carolina, to be Secretary of the Treasury. Pamela Bondi, of Florida, to be Attorney General. Douglas Burgum, of North Dakota, to be Secretary of the Interior. Lori Chavez-DeRemer, of Oregon, to be Secretary of Labor. Douglas Collins, of Georgia, to be Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Sean Duffy, of Wisconsin, to be Secretary of Transportation. Peter Hegseth, of Tennessee, to be Secretary of Defense. Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., of California, to be Secretary of Health and Human Services. Howard Lutnick, of New York, to be Secretary of Commerce. Linda McMahon, of Connecticut, to be Secretary of Education. Kristi Noem, of South Dakota, to be Secretary of Homeland Security. Brooke Rollins, of Texas, to be Secretary of Agriculture. Marco Rubio, of Florida, to be Secretary of State. Eric Turner, of Texas, to be Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Christopher Wright, of Colorado, to be Secretary of Energy. Tulsi Gabbard, of Hawaii, to be Director of National Intelligence. Jamieson Greer, of Maryland, to be United States Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Kelly Loeffler, of Georgia, to be Administrator of the Small Business Administration. John Ratcliffe, of Texas, to be Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. Elise Stefanik, of New York, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, and the Representative of the United States of America in the Security Council of the United Nations. Elise Stefanik, of New York, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations. Russell Vought, of Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Lee Zeldin, of New York, to be Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE01/24/25 President Trump Announces Presidential Delegation to attend the Commemoration of the 80th Anniversary of the Liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau in Oświęcim, Poland President Donald J. Trump today announced the designation of a Presidential Delegation to Poland to attend the Commemoration of the 80th Anniversary of the Liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau on January 27, 2025.The Honorable Steve Witkoff, United States Special Envoy to the Middle East and Howard Lutnick, nominee for Secretary of Commerce, will lead the delegation.Members of the Presidential Delegation:Mr. Charles Kushner, United States Ambassador to France NomineeMr. Isaac PerlmutterMs. Laura PerlmutterMs. Allison LutnickMr. Robert BookMr. Michael FriedmanMr. Boris Epshteyn Mr. Daniel Lawton, Chargé d’Affaires a.i., United States Mission to PolandMs. Ellen Germain, United States Special Envoy for Holocaust Issues
To the Senate of the United States, I nominate Keith Bass, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Lester Martinez-Lopez. Jayanta Bhattacharya, of California, to be Director of the National Institutes of Health, vice Monica M. Bertagnolli, resigned. James Bishop, of North Carolina, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, vice Nani A. Coloretti, resigned. Frank Bisignano, of New Jersey, to be Commissioner of Social Security, vice Martin O’Malley, resigned. Todd Blanche, of Florida, to be Deputy Attorney General, vice Lisa O. Monaco, resigned. Adam Boehler, of Tennessee, to be Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs. Samuel Brown, of Nevada, to be Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Memorial Affairs, vice Matthew T. Quinn. Walter Clayton, of New York, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York for the term of four years, vice Damian Williams. Elbridge Colby, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, vice Colin Hackett Kahl, resigned. Monica Crowley, of New York, to be Chief of Protocol, and to have the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service, vice Rufus Gifford, resigned. Harmeet Dhillon, of California, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Kristen M. Clarke, resigned. Daniel Driscoll, of North Carolina, to be Secretary of the Army, vice Christine Elizabeth Wormuth, resigned. Michael Duffy, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, vice William A. LaPlante Jr., resigned. Troy Edgar, of California, to be Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security, vice John K. Tien, resigned. Michael Faulkender, of Maryland, to be Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, vice Adewale O. Adeyemo, resigned. Stephen Feinberg, of New York, to be Deputy Secretary of Defense, vice Kathleen Holland Hicks, resigned. David Fink, of New Hampshire, to be Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration, vice Amitabha Bose, resigned. Paul Atkins, of Virginia, to be Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 5, 2026, vice Gary Gensler, resigned. Darío Gil, of New York, to be Under Secretary for Science, Department of Energy, vice Geraldine Richmond, resigned. Preston Griffith, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Energy, vice David Crane, resigned. Jacob Helberg, of Florida, to be an Under Secretary of State (Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment), vice Jose W. Fernandez, resigned. Dudley Hoskins, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, vice Jennifer Lester Moffitt, resigned. Jared Isaacman, of Pennsylvania, to be Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, vice Bill Nelson, resigned. Scott Kupor, of California, to be Director of the Office of Personnel Management for a term of four years, vice Kiran Arjandas Ahuja, resigned. Christopher Landau, of Maryland, to be Deputy Secretary of State, vice Kurt Campbell, resigned. Luke Lindberg, of South Dakota, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs, vice Alexis Taylor, resigned. William Long, of Missouri, to be Commissioner of Internal Revenue for the remainder of the term expiring November 12, 2027, vice Daniel I. Werfel. Martin Makary, of Virginia, to be Commissioner of Food and Drugs, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Robert McKinnon Califf, resigned. Mark Meador, of Virginia, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the term of seven years from September 26, 2024, vice Lina M. Khan, term expired. Troy Meink to be Secretary of the Air Force, vice Frank Kendall III, resigned. Emil Michael, of Florida, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, vice Heidi Shyu, resigned. Janette Nesheiwat, of New York, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, and to be Surgeon General of the Public Health Service for a term of four years, vice Vivek Hallegere Murthy, resigned. James O’Neill, of California, to be Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Andrea Joan Palm, resigned. Mehmet Oz, of Pennsylvania, to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, vice Chiquita Brooks-LaSure, resigned. Kashyap Patel, of Nevada, to be Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a term of ten years, vice Christopher A. Wray, resigned. John Phelan, of Florida, to be Secretary of the Navy, vice Carlos Del Toro, resigned. Aaron Reitz, of Texas, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Hampton Y. Dellinger. Michael Rigas, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources, vice Richard R. Verma, resigned. Dean Sauer, of Missouri, to be Solicitor General of the United States, vice Elizabeth Prelogar, resigned. Rodney Scott, of Oklahoma, to be Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security, vice Chris Magnus. Abigail Slater, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Jonathan Kanter, resigned. Keith Sonderling, of Florida, to be Deputy Secretary of Labor, vice Julie A. Su, resigned. Stephen Vaden, of Tennessee, to be Deputy Secretary of Agriculture, vice Xochitl Torres Small, resigned. David Weldon, of Florida, to be Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (New Position) Brandon Williams, of New York, to be Under Secretary for Nuclear Security, vice Jill Hruby, resigned. Keith Sonderling, of Florida, to be Deputy Secretary of Labor, vice Julie A. Su, resigned. 
Today, President Donald J. Trump is pleased to announce a distinguished and trusted group of Patriots to serve on the President’s Intelligence Advisory Board (PIAB). These individuals will advise the President on our nation’s most important security challenges and ensure that the Intelligence Community is working to advance the President’s America First agenda. The President’s PIAB appointees represent a broad range of experience and intellect that will help restore integrity to our Intelligence Community. The following individuals have been appointed to the PIAB: Devin Gerald Nunes, ChairScott GlabeAmaryllis Fox KennedyBrad Robert WenstrupWayne BermanReince PriebusRobert O’BrienJoshua LobelSander R. GerberKatie MillerJeremy KatzThomas Ollis Hicks, Jr. 
Today, President Donald J. Trump unveiled a plan for fair, free, reciprocal trade as he makes clear to the world that the United States will no longer tolerate being ripped off. The U.S. has one of the most open economies in the world, yet our trading partners keep their markets closed to U.S. exports — and reciprocal trade will finally correct that imbalance. President Trump’s plan to restore fairness and put American workers first was met with immediate praise: Renewable Fuels Association: “For almost a decade now, we have spent precious time and resources fighting back against an unfair and unjustified tariff regime imposed by Brazil’s government on U.S. ethanol imports. What’s more ironic is that these tariff barriers have been erected against U.S. ethanol imports while our country has openly accepted—and even encouraged and incentivized—ethanol imports from Brazil. As the two largest ethanol producers on the planet, we long enjoyed a cooperative free-trade relationship with Brazil involving ethanol, relying on each other when there were shortfalls or disruptions in the U.S. or Brazilian marketplace. However, that bilateral cooperation was abandoned by Brazil in 2017, when they instituted a tariff rate quota scheme, and eventually adopted a tariff in 2020. The Brazilian tariff on U.S. ethanol now stands at 18 percent and has virtually eliminated all market access for U.S. ethanol producers. We thank President Trump for taking this action and hope this reciprocal tariff will help encourage a return to free and fair ethanol trade relationship with Brazil.” American Iron and Steel Institute: “AISI applauds President Trump’s action today ordering the development of a comprehensive plan for restoring fairness in U.S. trade relationships and countering non-reciprocal trading arrangements. American steel producers know well the negative impact of foreign unfair trade practices, including subsidies, currency manipulation and other unfair and discriminatory policies and practices, on domestic industries and their workers … We look forward to working with the Secretary of Commerce, the U.S. Trade Representative and other key administration officials as they develop their plan of action to ensure reciprocity in international trade and to preserve the competitiveness of the American steel industry and other sectors.” Growth Energy: “While American biofuel producers have been almost entirely blocked off from the Brazilian market, Brazilian producers have enjoyed unfettered access to the U.S. In some cases, certain policies in the U.S. even incentivize the use of imported Brazilian ethanol instead of ethanol produced here in the U.S. This runs contrary to putting America first, and is exactly why President Trump is taking steps to address this issue. Thank you, President Trump for taking action and pushing for a level playing field for American ethanol producers.” Small Business Administration: “President Trump is right: restoring a level playing field on trade will unlock the next blue collar boom – creating jobs and powering our economy through ‘Made in America.’ Huge news for Main Street!” Energy Secretary Chris Wright: “President’s Trump’s ‘Fair and Reciprocal Plan’ on trade puts the American people first. As a former businessman, it’s great to see our country being run like a business and fighting for fairness on trade– it’s the American way!” Secretary of the Interior Doug Burgum: “President Trump is making America strong again. His Fair and Reciprocal Plan is commonsense: if you impose tariffs on us, we will impose tariffs on you in return.” Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy: “Bravo, President Trump! Thank you for announcing the Fair and Reciprocal Plan, which is based on legislation we worked on together in your first term. Unfair trade practices have hurt America’s transportation and infrastructure sectors for too long. President Trump’s trade plan will strengthen supply chains, boost infrastructure investments, and expand American transportation solutions. We promised a golden age of transportation, and I will not rest until America’s transportation system is great again!” Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Scott Turner: “For too long Washington has put foreign interests above Americans — that ends today. @POTUS’ Fair and Reciprocal Plan will put American workers on a level playing field.” EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin: “The American people elected @POTUS with a mandate to grow our economy and bring back American manufacturing. When it comes to Reciprocal tariffs, no one should ever underestimate President Trump’s vision, long game, and determination to deliver the Great American Comeback.” Speaker Mike Johnson (R-LA): “For too long, foreign countries have exploited America through unfair trade practices. President Trump’s reciprocal tariffs aim to confront these countries, protecting American workers and businesses through trade that is fair again. The Trump policies are focused on leveling the playing field and putting America FIRST.” Sen. Jim Banks (R-IN): “The globalist approach to trade threw our workers under a bus driven by their foreign competitors. President Trump’s America First trade plan corrects this injustice that our industries and workers have faced for decades. The reciprocal tariffs announced today will bring back fairness and prosperity and stop Americans from being taken advantage of.” Sen. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN): “President Trump is putting American workers and farmers first. He will end unfair trade deals and prioritize goods made in America! With President Trump at the negotiating table, we are going to get the best possible deal.” Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC): “Most countries charge us far more in tariffs than we charge them. Those days are over. I applaud President Trump’s decision to impose reciprocal tariffs against our trading partners. Whatever tariffs they put on American products, we will put on their products. This will be a game changer. Simple and brilliant.” Sen. Roger Marshall (R-KS): “Gone are the days of unfair trade deals that give foreign nations the upper hand. Today, President Trump put the world on notice: America will no longer be taken advantage of.” Sen. Pete Ricketts (R-NE): “The average weighted tariff on foreign products coming into the U.S. is 1.5%, yet the average tariff on U.S. products globally is 6%. President Trump promised to bring those numbers closer to balance. These tariffs are a step toward accomplishing that goal.” Sen. Rick Scott (R-FL): “President Trump’s fight for a level playing field and reciprocal treatment is common sense. The U.S. is done treating others better than they’re treating us. President Trump understands the art of the deal, and thanks to his strong leadership, we’re getting better deals that will help our businesses and grow our economy!” Sen. Tommy Tuberville (R-AL): “President Trump is brokering deals that put American farmers, manufacturers, and producers first. America has some of the best and brightest manufacturers and there’s no reason we can’t produce most things right here at home.” Majority Whip Tom Emmer (R-MN): “The master negotiator strikes again. @POTUS is realigning the playing field with countries that have taken advantage of us for far too long and delivering on his promise to put America FIRST.” Chairwoman Lisa McClain (R-MI): “President Trump is wasting no time leveling the playing field. I am optimistic the pressure applied by the ongoing tariff negotiations will lead to a wave of investment across the U.S. @POTUS is keeping his promise to put our economy first.” Ways and Means Committee Chair Jason Smith (R-MO): “President Trump understands that American workers and manufacturers can outcompete those of any other nation. But for far too long they have been held back by a lack of reciprocity because other countries impose much higher tariffs and other barriers than the United States imposes on imports. President Trump’s Executive Order helps deliver a level playing field for American workers and manufacturers.” Rep. Carlos Gimenez (R-FL): “President Trump has just announced RECIPROCAL TARIFFS for countries unfairly treating American products! If you want to sell to the USA, we must have access to your market as well. What is fair, is fair!” Rep. Byron Donalds (R-FL): “We will no longer tolerate being ripped-off by the rest of the world. Under President Trump, government is putting the American people first again. And that means RECIPROCAL TARIFFS” Rep. Randy Feenstra (R-IA): “Brazil imposes an 18% tariff on U.S. ethanol while we only charge Brazil 2.5%. In 2024, that imbalance resulted in our nation importing $200 million in Brazilian ethanol while Brazil only imported $52 million in U.S. ethanol. Our farmers deserve better!” Rep. Andy Harris (R-MD): “The days of America being taken advantage of are over. The “Fair and Reciprocal Plan” will put the American worker first and bring fairness back to international trade.” Rep. Diana Harshbarger (R-TN): “Our nation has been at the bad end of business deals regarding trade practices with other countries for far too long. That’s coming to an end. President Trump’s reciprocal tariffs are putting the world on notice — the gravy train is over, and we won’t be taken advantage of anymore.” Rep. Kevin Hern (R-OK): “President Trump is a strong leader – he’s not allowing the world to take advantage of the United States any longer. These reciprocal tariffs will incentivize other nations to level the playing field and remove long-standing, exorbitant tariffs. America FIRST!” Rep. Riley Moore (R-WV): “President Trump just announced plans to implement reciprocal tariffs on the foreign countries who are ripping us off. I’m proud to be leading this effort in Congress.” Rep. Greg Steube (R-FL): “I thank President Trump for standing up for American workers with his bold plan to restore balance and fairness to the marketplace. He and his administration understand that our workers deserve trade policies that are fair and beneficial to all. For far too long, blue-collar communities in the United States have been ripped off by foreign competitors benefiting from manipulative trade practices. If other countries believe they can continue to cheat the American people of their share of prosperity, they are sadly mistaken. President Trump has the right plan to secure our economy, restore fairness to international trade, and bring back good-paying jobs to the United States.” Rep. Beth Van Duyne (R-TX): “American workers, farmers, and manufacturers finally have a President who fights for them! I applaud President Trump’s plan to combat unfair trade practices. Our best days are still ahead of us!” House Republican Study Committee: “The Trump administration just announced reciprocal tariffs for countries like China that rip off the United States. It’s past time to flip the script on this. President Trump is trying to restore fairness in trade, ensuring that other countries are held to account for slapping tariffs on American goods. Gone are the days of our great nation being taken advantage of. Period.” 
I hereby designate the following: THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025. 
Last week, President Donald J. Trump took executive action to protect American children from irreversible chemical and surgical mutilation.It’s already having its intended effect — preventing children from being maimed and sterilized by adults perpetuating a radical, false claim that they can somehow change a child’s sex. Hospitals around the country are taking action to downsize or eliminate their so-called “gender-affirming care” programs: President Trump will always protect American children.Promises made, promises kept – again.

I look forward to joining the fans in New Orleans for Super Bowl LIX to cheer on two great teams—the Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles—as they battle for the National Football League’s Vince Lombardi Trophy. The coaches, players, and team staff on the field tonight represent the best of the best in professional football, but they also embody the best of the American Dream. Their hard work, dedication, and tenacity is admirable, and their individual journeys are as inspiring as the drive and determination that has led them to this extraordinary moment. They also represent the hopes and dreams of our Nation’s young athletes as we restore safety and fairness in sports and equal opportunities among their teams. Football is America’s most popular sport—for good reason—it fosters a sense of national unity, bringing families, friends, and fans together and strengthening communities. This annual tradition transcends our differences and personifies our shared patriotic values of family, faith, and freedom heroically defended by our military service members, law enforcement officers, and first responders. We value their devotion to protecting our great Nation and salute their selfless service. This year, the Super Bowl returns to the Caesars Superdome for a record setting 8th time. While thousands of fans from across our Nation gather in New Orleans to cheer on their favorite team, we remember that 14 families will be missing a loved one who was tragically murdered during a senseless terrorist attack while celebrating the New Year on Bourbon Street. Our thoughts are also with the 35 individuals injured during the attack whose lives were changed forever that fateful night, and our prayers will remain with them for continued strength, comfort, and healing. Tonight, we look forward to a terrific game and the crowning of the Super Bowl Champions. Melania joins me in sending our best wishes for a great Super Bowl Sunday. May the best team win, and may God bless you, your family, and the United States of America.
Today, we celebrate the birthday of Susan B. Anthony, a warrior for women and hero of Equality, Justice, and the Constitutional rule of law. For her entire life, Susan B. Anthony was fiercely devoted to the principle that every American, regardless of race or sex, is born with the God-given right to enjoy the blessings of Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness. Years later, her fearless crusade for Equality culminated in the ratification of the Nineteenth Amendment of the Constitution, which blocked states from denying citizens the right to vote on the basis of sex. Throughout her storied life, she also emerged as a champion of the abolitionist movement and a tireless advocate for the sanctity of life. As President, I have already taken historic action to advance the sacred causes that Susan B. Anthony cherished so deeply. I was honored to sign an Executive Order safeguarding women’s sports—ensuring the survival of free and competitive spaces for female athletes. Additionally, I was proud to order the end of taxpayer-funded abortion—a big win for the most vulnerable among us. While my Administration continues to honor the legacy of Susan B. Anthony and promote our shared cause of Liberty and Justice for all, I also want to thank our Nation’s First Lady, Melania Trump, for previously hosting a White House celebration with America’s youth to honor the centennial anniversary of the ratification of the Nineteenth Amendment. I know she looks forward to continuing to help empower and support girls and women in the United States and around the globe. Today, Melania joins me in paying tribute to Susan B. Anthony’s perseverance, leadership, and monumental achievements. Let us continue her life’s work of creating a culture that celebrates the enduring triumph of Freedom, the dignity of life, and the full glory of the American promise.
Today, I look forward to joining tens of thousands of American Patriots in Daytona Beach, Florida, for the “Great American Race”—the legendary Daytona 500—and the official start to the 2025 NASCAR Cup Series. This iconic race showcases the fastest, most fearless drivers in motorsports, who represent our Nation’s love of tradition, competition, and automotive innovation. The Daytona 500 brings together people from all walks of life—from lifelong racing fans to first-time spectators—they all join in celebrating a shared passion for speed, adrenaline, and the thrill of the race. From the roar of the engines on the track to the echo of “The Star-Spangled Banner” soaring through the stands, the Daytona 500 is a timeless tribute to the speed, strength, and unyielding spirit that make America great. That spirit is what will fuel America’s Golden Age, and if we harness it, the future is truly ours. Since the very beginning, NASCAR has carried forth a proud tradition of honoring our heroic Service members for their unwavering courage. While fans from around the world gather today at Daytona International Speedway, we extend our unending gratitude to the selfless men and women in uniform who risk their lives to keep us safe. When the engines start or the checkered flag waves, and all 500 thrilling miles in between, our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, Coast Guardsmen, and Guardians stand ready to defend cherished traditions like this—and for that, we are truly thankful. Melania and I send our best wishes for a safe and successful race. May God bless our Armed Forces, and may He continue to bless the United States of America.
Melania and I send our warmest greetings to those in the United States and around the world who are celebrating the Lunar New Year. Our Nation is blessed with a passionate and strong Asian-American community that has made countless contributions to our proud history. For many Americans of Asian heritage, this is a time of rich family traditions. As people gather together for fireworks and parades, The First Lady and I join them in celebrating and welcoming the Year of the Snake. Traditionally, the snake is associated with wisdom, spirituality, and good fortune. As we begin America’s golden age, I ask God to bless our Nation with these gifts—may this year bring peace, happiness, and success to all. Happy New Year!
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to establish an advisory council on science and technology, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Purpose. The American story is one of boundless creativity and bold ambition, driven by an indomitable pioneering spirit that propels exploration and discovery. It is this spirit that illuminated the world with Edison’s lightbulb, carried the Wright brothers into the skies, and sent Armstrong to the moon. Today, a new frontier of scientific discovery lies before us, defined by transformative technologies such as artificial intelligence, quantum computing, and advanced biotechnology. Breakthroughs in these fields have the potential to reshape the global balance of power, spark entirely new industries, and revolutionize the way we live and work. As our global competitors race to exploit these technologies, it is a national security imperative for the United States to achieve and maintain unquestioned and unchallenged global technological dominance. To secure our future, we must harness the full power of American innovation by empowering entrepreneurs, unleashing private-sector creativity, and reinvigorating our research institutions. At the heart of scientific progress lies the pursuit of truth. But this foundational principle, which has driven every major breakthrough in our history, is increasingly under threat. Today, across science, medicine, and technology, ideological dogmas have surfaced that elevate group identity above individual achievement, enforce conformity at the expense of innovative ideas, and inject politics into the heart of the scientific method. These agendas have not only distorted truth but have eroded public trust, undermined the integrity of research, stifled innovation, and weakened America’s competitive edge. This order establishes the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology to unite the brightest minds from academia, industry, and government to guide our Nation through this critical moment by charting a path forward for American leadership in science and technology. Sec. 2. Establishment. (a) There is hereby established the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST).(b) The PCAST shall be composed of not more than 24 members. The Assistant to the President for Science and Technology (APST) and the Special Advisor for AI & Crypto shall be members of the PCAST. If also serving as the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the APST may designate the U.S. Chief Technology Officer as a member. The remaining members shall be distinguished individuals and representatives from sectors outside of the Federal Government appointed by the President. These non-Federal members shall have diverse perspectives and expertise in science, technology, education, and innovation.(c) The APST and the Special Advisor for AI & Crypto shall serve as Co-Chairs of the PCAST. The Co-Chairs may designate up to two Vice Chairs of the PCAST from among the non-Federal members of the PCAST, to support the Co-Chairs in the leadership and organization of the PCAST. Sec. 3. Functions. (a) The PCAST shall advise the President on matters involving science, technology, education, and innovation policy. The Council shall also provide the President with scientific and technical information that is needed to inform public policy relating to the American economy, the American worker, national and homeland security, and other topics.(b) The PCAST shall meet regularly and shall:(i) respond to requests from the President or the Co-Chairs for information, analysis, evaluation, or advice;(ii) solicit information and ideas from a broad range of stakeholders, including the research community; the private sector; universities; national laboratories; State, local, and Tribal governments; foundations; and nonprofit organizations;(iii) serve as the advisory committee identified in section 101(b) of the High-Performance Computing Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-194), as amended (15 U.S.C. 5511(b)), in which capacity the PCAST shall be known as the President’s Innovation and Technology Advisory Committee; and(iv) serve as the advisory panel identified in section 4 of the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act (Public Law 108-153), as amended (15 U.S.C. 7503), in which capacity the PCAST shall be known as the National Nanotechnology Advisory Panel.(c) The PCAST shall provide advice from the non-Federal sector to the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) in response to requests from the NSTC. Sec. 4. Administration. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the PCAST with information concerning scientific and technological matters when requested by the PCAST Co-Chairs and as required for the purpose of carrying out the PCAST’s functions.(b) In consultation with the Co-Chairs, the PCAST is authorized to create standing subcommittees and ad hoc groups, including technical advisory groups, to assist the PCAST and provide preliminary information directly to the PCAST.(c) In order to allow the PCAST to provide advice and analysis regarding classified matters, the Co-Chairs may request that members of the PCAST, its standing subcommittees, or ad hoc groups who do not hold a current clearance for access to classified information receive security clearance and access determinations pursuant to Executive Order 12968 of August 2, 1995 (Access to Classified Information), as amended, or any successor order.(d) The Department of Energy shall provide such funding and administrative and technical support as the PCAST may require, to the extent permitted by law and as authorized by existing appropriations.(e) Members of the PCAST shall serve without any compensation for their work on the PCAST, but may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the government service (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707).(f) Insofar as the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), may apply to the PCAST, any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the Congress, shall be performed by the Secretary of Energy, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services. Sec. 5. Termination. The PCAST shall terminate 2 years from the date of this order unless extended by the President. Sec. 6. Revocation. Executive Order 14007 of January 27, 2021 (President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology), as amended by Executive Order 14109 of September 29, 2023 (Continuance of Certain Federal Advisory Committees and Amendments to Other Executive Orders), is hereby revoked. Sec. 7. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.THE WHITE HOUSE January 23, 2025.
1:06 P.M. EST MS. LEAVITT: Good afternoon, everybody. Q Good afternoon. MS. LEAVITT: How are we? Good to see all of you. It’s an honor to be here with all of you. A lot of familiar faces in the room, a lot of new faces. And President Trump is back, and the golden age of America has most definitely begun. The Senate has already confirmed five of President Trump’s exceptional Cabinet nominees: Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, CIA Director John Ratcliffe, Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem, and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent. It is imperative that the Senate continues to confirm the remainder of the president’s well-qualified nominees as quickly as possible. As you have seen during the past week, President Trump is hard at work fulfilling the promises that he made to the American people on the campaign trail. Since taking the oath of office, President Trump has taken more than 300 executive actions; secured nearly $1 trillion in U.S. investments; deported illegal alien rapists, gang members, and suspected terrorists from our homeland; and restored common sense to the federal government. I want to take a moment to go through some of these extraordinary actions. On day one, President Trump declared a national emergency at our southern border to end the four-year-long invasion of illegal aliens under the previous administration. Additionally, President Trump signed an executive order to end catch and release and finish construction of his effective border wall. By using every lever of his federal power, President Trump has sent a loud and clear message to the entire world: America will no longer tolerate illegal immigration. And this president expects that every nation on this planet will cooperate with the repatriation of their citizens, as proven by this weekend, when President Trump swiftly directed his team to issue harsh and effective sanctions and tariffs on the Colombian government upon hearing they were denied a U.S. military aircraft full of their own citizens who were deported by this administration. Within hours, the Colombian government agreed to all of President Trump’s demands, proving America is once again respected on the world stage. So, to foreign nationals who are thinking about trying to illegally enter the United States, think again. Under this president, you will be detained, and you will be deported. Every day, Americans are safer because of the violent criminals that President Trump’s administration is removing from our communities. On January 23rd, ICE New York arrested a Turkish national for entry without inspection who is a known or suspected terrorist. On January 23rd, ICE San Francisco arrested a citizen of Mexico unlawfully present in the United States who has been convicted of continuous sexual abuse of a child aged 14 years or younger. ICE Saint Paul has arrested a citizen of Honduras who was convicted of fourth-degree criminal sexual conduct with a minor. ICE Buffalo arrested a citizen of Ecuador who has been convicted of rape. ICE Boston arrested a citizen of the Dominican Republic who has a criminal conviction for second-degree murder. This criminal was convicted of murder for beating his pregnant wife to death in front of her five-year-old son. And ICE Saint Paul also arrested a citizen of Mexico who was convicted of possessing pornographic material of a minor on a work computer. These are the heinous individuals that this administration is removing from American communities every single day. And to the brave state and local law enforcement officers, CBP, and ICE agents who are helping in the facilitation of this deportation operation, President Trump has your back and he is grateful for your hard work. On the economic front, President Trump took immediate action to lower costs for families who are suffering from four long years of the Biden administration’s destructive and inflationary policies. President Trump ordered the heads of all executive departments and agencies to help deliver emergency price relief to the American people, untangle our economy from Biden’s regulatory constraints, and end the reckless war on American energy. President Trump also signed sweeping executive orders to end the weaponization of government and restore common sense to the federal bureaucracy. He directed all federal agencies to terminate illegal diversity, equity, and inclusion programs to help return America to a merit-based society. President Trump also signed an executive order declaring it is now the policy of the federal government that there are only two sexes: male and female. Sanity has been restored. Before I take your questions, I would like to point out to — all of you once again have access to the most transparent and accessible president in American history. There has never been a president who communicates with the American people and the American press corps as openly and authentically as the 45th and now 47th president of the United States. This past week, President Trump has held multiple news conferences, gaggled on Air Force One multiple times, and sat down for a two-part interview on Fox News, which aired last week. As Politico summed it up best, “Trump is everywhere again,” and that’s because President Trump has a great story to tell about the legendary American revival that is well underway. And in keeping with this revolutionary media approach that President Trump deployed during the campaign, the Trump White House will speak to all media outlets and personalities, not just the legacy media who are seated in this room, because apporting — according to recent polling from Gallup, Americans’ trust in mass media has fallen to a record low. Millions of Americans, especially young people, have turned from traditional television outlets and newspapers to consume their news from podcasts, blogs, social media, and other independent outlets. It’s essential to our team that we share President Trump’s message everywhere and adapt this White House to the new media landscape in 2025. To do this, I am excited to announce the following changes will be made to this historic James S. Brady Briefing Room, where Mr. Brady’s legacy will endure. This White House believes strongly in the First Amendment, so it’s why our team will work diligently to restore the press passes of the 440 journalists whose passes were wrongly revoked by the previous administration. We’re also opening up this briefing room to new media voices who produce news-related content and whose outlet is not already represented by one of the seats in this room. We welcome independent journalists, podcasters, social media influencers, and content creators to apply for credentials to cover this White House. And you can apply now on our new website, WhiteHouse.gov/NewMedia. Starting today, this seat in the front of the room, which is usually occupied by the press secretary staff, will be called the “new media” seat. My team will review the applications and give credentials to new media applicants who meet our criteria and pass United States Secret Service requirements to enter the White House complex. So, in light of these announcements, our first questions for today’s briefing will go to these new media members whose outlets, despite being some of the most viewed news websites in the country, have not been given seats in this room. And before I turn to questions, I do have news directly from the president of the United States that was just shared with me in the Oval Office from President Trump directly — an update on the New Jersey drones: After research and study, the drones that were flying over New Jersey in large numbers were authorized to be flown by the FAA for research and various other reasons. Many of these drones were also hobbyists — recreational and private individuals that enjoy flying drones. In meanti- — in the — in time, it got worse, due to curiosity. This was not the enemy. A — a statement from the president of the United States to start this briefing with some news. And with that, I will turn it over to questions, and we will begin with our new media members: Mike Allen from Axios, Matt Boyle from Breitbart. Mike, why don’t you go ahead. Q Thank you very much. Karoline, does the president see anything fishy about DeepSeek, either its origins or its cost? And could China’s ability to make these models quicker, cheaper affect our thinking about expanding generation data centers, chip manufacturing? MS. LEAVITT: Sure. The president was asked about DeepSeek last night on Air Force One when he gaggled for, I think, the third or fourth time throughout the weekend with members of the traveling press corps. The president said that he believes that this is a wake-up call to the American AI industry. The last administration sat on their hands and allowed China to rapidly develop this AI program. And so, President Trump believes in restoring American AI dominance, and that’s why he took very strong executive action this past week to sign executive orders to roll back some of the onerous regulations on the AI industry. And President Trump has also proudly appointed the first AI and crypto czar at this White House, David Sacks, whom I spoke with yesterday — very knowledgeable on this subject. And his team is here working every single day to ensure American AI dominance. As for the national security implications, I spoke with NSC this morning. They are looking into what those may be, and when I have an update, I will share it with you, Mike. Q And, Karoline, you say “restore” U.S. dominance. Is there fear that the U.S. either is falling or has fallen behind? And how would the president make sure the U.S. stays ahead? MS. LEAVITT: No. The president is confident that we will restore American dominance in AI. Matt. Q Yeah. So, Karoline, first off, thank you to you and President Trump for actually giving voices to new media outlets that represent millions and millions of Americans. The thing I would add — the — I’ve got a two-part question for you. The first is just: Can you expand upon what steps the White House is going to take to bring more voices, not less — which is what our founder, Andrew Breitbart, believed in — into this room, where they rightly belong? MS. LEAVITT: Yeah, absolutely. And as I said in my opening statement, Matt, it is a priority of this White House to honor the First Amendment. And it is a fact that Americans are consuming their news media from various different platforms, especially young people. And as the youngest press secretary in history, thanks to President Trump, I take great pride in opening up this room to new media voices to share the president’s message with as many Americans as possible. In doing so, number one, we will ensure that outlets like yours — Axios and Breitbart, which are widely respected and viewed outlets — have an actual seat in this room every day. We also, again, encourage anybody in this country — whether you are a TikTok content creator, a blogger, a podcaster — if you are producing legitimate news content, no matter the medium, you will be allowed to apply for press credentials to this White House. And as I said earlier, our new media website is WhiteHouse.gov/NewMedia, and so we encourage people to apply. Again, as long as you are creating news-related content of the day and you’re a legitimate independent journalist, you’re welcome to cover this White House. Q And secondly, Karoline, you sa- — you laid out several of the actions that President Trump has taken. Obviously, it’s a stark contrast to the previous administration and a breakneck speed from President Trump. Can we expect that pace to continue as the hun- — the — you know, the first 100 days moves along here and beyond that? MS. LEAVITT: Absolutely. There is no doubt President Trump has always been the hardest working man in politics. I think that’s been proven over the past week. This president has, again, signed more than 300 executive orders. He’s taken historic action. I gaggled aboard Air Force One to mark the first 100 days of this administration — 4:00 p.m. last Friday — first 100 hours, rather. And this president did more in the first 100 hours than the previous president did in the first 100 days. So, President Trump, I think you can all expect to — for him to continue to work at this breakneck speed. So, I hope you’re all ready to work very hard. I know that we are. Zeke Miller. Q Thanks, Karoline. A question that we’ve asked your predecessors of both parties in this job. When you’re up here in this briefing room speaking to the American public, do you view yourself and your role as speaking on — advocating on behalf of the president, or providing the unvarnished truth that is, you know, not to lie, not to obfuscate to the American people? MS. LEAVITT: I commit to telling the truth from this podium every single day. I commit to speaking on behalf of the president of the United States. That is my job. And I will say it’s very easy to speak truth from this podium when you have a president who is implementing policies that are wildly popular with the American people, and that’s exactly what this administration is doing. It’s correcting the lies and the wrongs of the past four years, many of the lies that have been told to your faces in this very briefing room. I will not do that. But since you brought up truth, Zeke, I would like to point out, while I vow to provide the truth from this podium, we ask that all of you in this room hold yourselves to that same standard. We know for a fact there have been lies that have been pushed by many legacy media outlets in this country about this president, about his family, and we will not accept that. We will call you out when we feel that your reporting is wrong or there is misinformation about this White House. So, yes, I will hold myself to the truth, and I expect everyone in this room to do the same. Q And, Karoline, just on a substantive question. Yesterday, the White House Office of Management and Budget directed an across-the-board freeze with — with some exceptions for individual assistance. We understand just federal grants. MS. LEAVITT: Right. Q It’s caused a lot of confusion around the country among Head Start providers, among providers — from services to homeless veterans, provid- — you know, Medicaid providers, states saying they’re having trouble accessing the portal. Could you put — help us clear up some confusion — MS. LEAVITT: Yes. Q — give some certainty to folks? And then also, is that uncertainty — how does that uncertainty service the president’s voters? MS. LEAVITT: Well, I think there’s only uncertainty in this room amongst the media. There’s no uncertainty in this building. So, let me provide the certainty and the clarity that all of you need. This is not a blanket pause on federal assistance in grant programs from the Trump administration. Individual assistance, that includes — I’m not naming everything that’s included, but just to give you a few examples — Social Security benefits, Medicare benefits, food stamps, welfare benefits — assistance that is going directly to individuals will not be impacted by this pause. And I want to make that very clear to any Americans who are watching at home who may be a little bit confused about some of the media reporting: This administration — if you are receiving individual assistance from the federal government, you will still continue to receive that. However, it is the responsibility of this president and this administration to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars. That is something that President Trump campaigned on. That’s why he has launched DOGE, the Department of Government Efficiency, who is working alongside OMB. And that’s why OMB sent out this memo last night, because the president signed an executive order directing OMB to do just this. And the reason for this is to ensure that every penny that is going out the door is not conflicting with the executive orders and actions that this president has taken. So, what does this pause mean? It means no more funding for illegal DEI programs. It means no more funding for the Green New Scam that has ta- — cost American taxpayers tens of billions of dollars. It means no more funding for transgenderism and wokeness across our federal bureaucracy and agencies. No more funding for Green New Deal social engineering policies. Again, people who are receiving individual asintan- — assistance, you will continue to receive that. And President Trump is looking out for you by issuing this pause because he is being good steward of your taxpayer dollars. Q Thanks, Karoline. MS. LEAVITT: Sure. Q How long is this pause going to last? And how is the Trump administration recommending that organizations that rely on federal funding make payroll, pay their rent in the meantime? MS. LEAVITT: It is a temporary pause, and the Office of Management and Budget is reviewing the federal funding that has been going out the door, again, not for individual assistance, but for all of these other programs that I mentioned. I also spoke with the incoming director of OMB this morning, and he told me to tell all of you that the line to his office is open for other federal government agencies across the board, and if they feel that programs are necessary and in line with the president’s agenda, then the Office of Management and Budget will review those policies. I think this is a very responsible measure. Again, the past four years, we’ve seen the Biden administration spend money like drunken sailors. It’s a big reason we’ve had an inflation crisis in this country, and it’s incumbent upon this administration to make sure, again, that every penny is being accounted for honestly. Q Why impose this pause with so little notice? Why not give organizations more time to plan for the fact that they are about to lose, in some cases, really crucial federal funding — MS. LEAVITT: There was — Q — at least for a — for a period of time? MS. LEAVITT: There was notice. It was the executive order that the president signed. There’s also a freeze on hiring, as you know; a regulatory freeze; and there’s also a freeze on foreign aid. And this is a — again, incredibly important to ensure that this administration is taking into consideration how hard the American people are working. And their tax dollars actually matter to this administration. You know, just during this pause, DOGE and OMB have actually found that there was $37 million that was about to go out the door to the World Health Organization, which is an organization, as you all know, that President Trump, with the swipe of his pen in that executive order, is — no longer wants the United States to be a part of. So, that wouldn’t be in line with the president’s agenda. DOGE and OMB also found that there was about to be 50 million taxpayer dollars that went out the door to fund condoms in Gaza. That is a preposterous waste of taxpayer money. So, that’s what this pause is focused on: being good stewards of tax dollars. Q And so, this doesn’t affect — MS. LEAVITT: Jennifer. Q — Meals on Wheels or Head Start or disaster aid? MS. LEAVITT: Again, it does not affect individual assistance that’s going to Americans. Q To follow up on Nancy, do you think there will be a list of who is affected and how much money is affected? How — how will these contractors and organizations know if they are actually being — having their funding frozen? And then, secondly, if you’re willing, can you just clarify, is the end goal of this to essentially challenge Congress or to — to prove that the president can withhold federal funding? Is — in other words, is this an attempt to pick a fight to prove that he can do this? MS. LEAVITT: No, absolutely not. As it says right here in the memo, which I have — and I’d encourage all of you to read it — it says, “The American people elected President Trump to be the president of the United States and gave him a mandate to increase the impact of every federal dollar.” “This memo requires federal agencies to identify and review all Federal financial assistance programs and supporting activities consistent with the president’s policies and requirements.” The American people gave President Trump an overwhelming mandate on November 5th, and he’s just trying to ensure that the tax money going out the door in this very bankrupt city actually aligns with the will and the priorities of the American people. (Cross-talk.) Brian Glenn. Q Yes. Welcome. MS. LEAVITT: Thank you. Q You look great. You’re doing a great job. MS. LEAVITT: Thank you. Q You talked about transparency. And some of us in this room know how just transparent President Trump has been the last five or six years; I think you’ll do the same. My question is, do you think this latest incident with the president of Colombia is indicative of the global, powerful respect they have for President Trump moving forward not only to engage in — in economic diplomacy with these countries but also world peace? MS. LEAVITT: Absolutely. I’ll echo the answer that the president gave on Air Force One last night when he was asked a very similar question by one of your colleagues in the media: This signifies peace through strength is back, and this president will not tolerate illegal immigration into America’s interior. And he expects every nation on this planet, again, to cooperate with the repatriation of their citizens who illegally entered into our country and broke America’s laws. Won’t be tolerated. And as you saw, the Colombian government quickly folded and agreed to all of President Trump’s demands. Flights are underway once again. (Cross-talk.) Diana. Q Two questions on deportations, if I may. President Trump had said on the campaign trail that he would deport pro-Hamas students who are here on visas, and on his first day in office, he signed an executive order that said, quote, “The U.S. must ensure that admitted aliens and aliens otherwise already present in the U.S. do not bear hostile attitudes toward its citizens, culture, government, institutions, or founding principles.” So, should we take this executive order as Trump saying he would be open to de- — deporting those students who are here on visas, but, you know, hold pro-Hamas sympathies? MS. LEAVITT: The president is open to deporting individuals who have broken our nation’s immigrations laws. So, if they are here illegally, then certainly he is open to deporting them, and that’s what this administration is hard at work at doing. We receive data from DHS and from ICE every single day. From what we hear on the ground, ICE agents are feeling incredibly empowered right now because they actually have a leader in this building who is supporting them in doing their jobs that they were hired to do, which is to detain, arrest, and deport illegal criminals who have invaded our nation’s borders over the past four years. That’s what the president is committed to seeing. Q One more. MS. LEAVITT: Peter. Q Just following up on that, Karoline — Q Karoline, if I could ask you very quickly, just following up on the question on immigration. First, President Trump, during the course of the campaign in 2024, said the following about illegal im- — immigration. He said, “They’re going back home where they belong, and we start with the criminals. There are many, many criminals.” NBC News has learned that ICE arrested 1,179 undocumented immigrants on Sunday, but nearly half of them — 566 of the migrants — appear to have no prior criminal record besides entering the country illegally. MS. LEAVITT: (Laughs.) Q Is the president still focused exclusiv- — which is a civil crime, not a — not a — it’s not criminal — MS. LEAVITT: It’s a federal crime. Q It’s a fed- — so, I’m asking though, he said he was going to focus on those violent offenders first. So, is violent offenders no longer the predicate for these people to be deported? MS. LEAVITT: The president has said countless times on the campaign trail — I’ve been with him at the rallies; I know you’ve been there covering them too, Peter — that he is focused on launching the largest mass deportation operation in American history of illegal criminals. And if you are an individual, a foreign national, who illegally enters the United States of America, you are, by definition, a criminal. And so, therefore — Q So, to be clear, it’s not exclusively — MS. LEAVITT: — you are subject deportation. Q I apologize for interrupting. So, to be clear, it’s not — violent criminals do not receive precedence in terms of the deportations taking place? MS. LEAVITT: The president has also said — two things can be true at the same time. We want to deport illegal criminals, illegal immigrants from this country. But the president has said that, of course, the illegal dr- — criminal drug dealers, the rapists, the murderers, the individuals who have committed heinous acts on the interior of our country and who have terrorized law-abiding American citizens, absolutely, those should be the priority of ICE. But that doesn’t mean that the other illegal criminals who entered our nation’s borders are off the table. Q Understood. Then let me ask you a separate question about the confusion that still exists across the country right now as it relates to the — the freeze — or the pause, as it’s described. President Trump, of course, ran — one of the key policy items was that he was going to lower prices, lower the cost of everything from groceries, as he often said. But in many of the cases, it would seem that some of these moves could raise prices for real Americans on everything from low-income heating — that program; childcare programs. Will nothing that the president is doing here, in terms of the freeze in these programs, raise prices on ordinary Americans? MS. LEAVITT: What particular actions are you referring to that would — Q I’m referring to LHEAP right now. That’s the low-income heating program, for example. We can talk about — there’s no clarity, so I could refer to a lot of them. We don’t know what they are specifically. Can you tell us that LHEAP — that LIHEAP is not one of those affected? MS. LEAVITT: So, you’re asking a hypoc- — -thetical based on programs that you can’t even identify? Q No, I just identified — I — MS. LEAVITT: What I can tell you is that the — Q Well, just to be — just to be clear, since you guys haven’t identified, let’s do it together, just for Americans at home. Medicaid, is that affected? MS. LEAVITT: I gave you a list of examples — Social Security, Medicare, welfare benefits — Q Medicaid too, correct? MS. LEAVITT: — food stamps — that will not be impacted by this federal pause. I can get you the full list after this briefing from the Office of Management and Budget. But I do want to address the cost cutting, because that’s certainly very important, and — and cutting the cost of living in this country. President Trump has taken historic action over the past week to do that. He actually signed a memorandum to deliver emergency price relief for American families, which took a number of actions. I can walk you through those. He also repealed many onerous Biden administration regulations. We know, over the past four years, American households has been essentially taxed $55,000 in regulations from the previous administration. President Trump, with the swipe of his pen, rescinded those, which will ultimately put more money back in the pockets of the American people. So, deregulation is a big deal. And then, when it comes to energy, I mean, the president signed an executive order to declare a national energy emergency here at home, which is going to make America energy dominant. We know that energy is one of the number-one drivers of inflation, and so that’s why the president wants to increase our energy supply: to bring down costs for Americans. The Trump energy boom is incoming, and Americans can expect that. Q Please share that memo. Thank you. MS. LEAVITT: I will. (Cross-talk.) Q Karoline, I think — some of the confusion, I think, may be here with this pause on federal funding. You’ve made it clear you’re not stopping funds that go directly to individuals, but there certainly are lots of organizations that receive funding and then may pass along a benefit — Meals on Wheels, for one. They provide meals for over 2.2 million seniors. What is the president’s message to Americans out there, many of whom supported him and voted for him, who are concerned that this is going to impact them directly, even if, as you said, the funding isn’t coming directly to their wallet? MS. LEAVITT: I have now been asked and answered this question four times. To individuals at home who receive direct assistance from the federal government, you will not be impacted by this federal freeze. In fact, OMB just sent out a memo to Capitol Hill with Q and A to — to clarify some of the questions and the answers that all of you are a- — are asking me right now. Again, direct assistance will not be impacted. I’ve been asked and answered about this OMB memo. There’s many other topics of the day. Jacqui Heinrich. Q But on indirect assistance, Karoline — Q Thank you, Karoline. Q — if it’s going to another organization and then trickling down? MS. LEAVITT: Direct assistance that is in the hands of the American people will not be impacted. Again, as I said to Peter, we will continue to provide that list as it comes to fruition. But OMB right now is focused on analyzing the federal government’s spending, which is exactly what the American people elected President Trump to do. (Cross-talk.) Q Thank you, Karoline. Q And one question on immigration, Karoline. On immigration. Q Thank you, Karo- — Q Of the 3,500 arrests ICE has made so far since President Trump came back into office, can you just tell us the numbers? How many have a criminal record versus those who are just in the country illegally. MS. LEAVITT: All of them, because they illegally broke our nation’s laws, and, therefore, they are criminals, as far as this administration goes. I know the last administration didn’t see it that way, so it’s a big culture shift in our nation to view someone who breaks our immigration laws as a criminal. But that’s exactly what they are. Jacqui. (Cross-talk.) Q Karoline, on tariffs. Q But you made a point of going with the worst first. Q On tariffs. Q They all have a criminal record? Q And welcome to the briefing room. MS. LEAVITT: If they broke our nation’s laws, yes, they are a criminal. Yes. Q Thank you. On stripping security details for figures like John Bolton, Pompeo, Brian Hook. Senator Tom Cotton said that he’s seen the intelligence and the threat from Iran is real for anyone who played a role in the Soleimani strike. He voiced concern it wouldn’t just impact those individuals but potentially their family, innocent bystanders, friends — anyone who is near them when they’re out in public. Is the president open to reconsidering his decision? MS. LEAVITT: The president was asked and answered this yesterday, and he was firm in his decision, despite some of the comments that you had referenced. And he’s made it very clear that he does not believe American taxpayers should fund security details for individuals who have served in the government for the rest of their lives. And there’s nothing stopping these individuals that you mentioned from obtaining private security. That’s where the president stands on it. I have no updates on that. Q Is there any concern that this decision might jeopardize the administration’s ability to hire the best advisers for these kinds of positions in the future? MS. LEAVITT: No. In fact, I’ve talked to the Presidential Personnel Office who has told me directly that there is such an influx of resumes for this administration that it’s incredibly overwhelming. There is no lack of talent for the Trump administration. Reagan Ree- — Q And would he — would he take any responsibility — Q Thanks, Karoline. Q — if anything happened to these people? Would he feel at all that his decision was a factor in that? MS. LEAVITT: The president was asked and answered this yesterday. I’d defer you to his comments. Q Thanks, Karoline. Q Karoline — MS. LEAVITT: Reagan, since you’re in the back row, I hear y- — the back row hasn’t gotten much attention in the last four years — Q Yes, thank you. MS. LEAVITT: — so I’m happy to answer your question. Q And I can project. (Laughter.) Does the president intend to permanently cut off funding to NGOs that are bringing illegal foreign nationals to the country, such as Catholic Charities? MS. LEAVITT: I am actually quite certain that the president signed an executive order that did just that, and I can point you to that. Q One more, Karoline. MS. LEAVITT: Yeah. Q President Trump issued an executive order on increased vetting for refugees in visa applications. MS. LEAVITT: That’s right. Q Part of that order was considering an outright ban for countries that have deficient screening processes. Has the president considered yet which countries might fall into this category? Are countries like Afghanistan or Syria under consideration for a full ban? MS. LEAVITT: Yeah. So, the president signed an executive order to streamline the vetting for visa applicants and for illegal immigrants in this country who are coming, of course, from other nations. It also directed the secretary of State to review the process and make sure that other countries around the world are being completely transparent with our nation and the individuals that they are sending here. And so, the secretary of State has been directed to report back to the president. I haven’t seen that report yet. We’ve only been here for a few days. (Cross-talk.) Q Karoline, two questions for you. One on the freeze in federal funding. Who advised the president on the legality of telling government agencies that they don’t have to spend money that was already appropriated by Congress? MS. LEAVITT: Well, as the OMB memo states, this is certainly within the confines of the law. So, White House Counsel’s Office believes that this is within the pe- — president’s power to do it, and therefore, he’s doing it. Q Okay. So, they disagree with lawmakers who say that they don’t have the power to — to freeze this funding? MS. LEAVITT: Again, I would point you to the language in the memo that clearly states this is within the law. Q And on what happened on Friday night. The — the administration fired several inspectors general without giving Congress the 30-day legally required notification that they were being fired. I think only two were left at DO- — DHS and the DOJ. And then, yesterday, we saw several prosecutors — I believe 12 — fired from the Justice Department who worked on the investigations into the president. As you know, they are career prosecutors; therefore, they are afforded civil service protections. How is the administration deciding which laws to follow and which ones to ignore? MS. LEAVITT: So, it is the belief of this White House and the White House Counsel’s Office that the president was within his exe- — executive authority to do that. He is the executive of the executive branch, and, therefore, he has the power to fire anyone within the executive branch that he wishes to. There’s also a case that went before the Supreme Court in 2020: Scaila [Seila] Law LLC, v. the Customs — the [Consumer Financial Protection] Bureau Protection. I would advise you to look at that case, and that’s the legality that this White House has rested on. Q So, you’re confident that if they bring lawsuits against you — those prosecutors who were fired — that — that they will succeed? MS. LEAVITT: We will win in court, yes. Q And did he personally direct this, given they worked on the classified documents investigation and the election interference investigation? MS. LEAVITT: This was a memo that went out by the Presidential Personnel Office, and the president is the leader of this White House. So, yes. Q So, it did come from him? MS. LEAVITT: Yes, it came from this White House. (Cross-talk.) Q Karoline. MS. LEAVITT: Sir. Q Thank you. Congrats on your first day behind the podium. MS. LEAVITT: Thank you. Q President Trump ended funding for UNRWA and also designated the Houthis a foreign terrorist organization. MS. LEAVITT: That’s right. Q Both were decisions that the previous administration had reversed. So, here’s my question: Will there be an investigation into who gave the previous administration this terrible advice? MS. LEAVITT: Well, that’s a very good point. I haven’t heard discussions about such an ins- — investigation, but it wouldn’t be a bad idea, considering that the Houthis cer- — certainly are terrorists. They have launched attacks on U.S. naval ships across this world, and so I think it was a very wise move by this administration to redesignate them as a terrorist group, because they are. And I think it was a foolish decision by the previous administration to do so. As for an investigation, I’m not sure about that, but it’s not a bad idea. (Cross-talk.) Josh. Q Thank you for the question. I appreciate it. Can you give us an update on the president’s plan for his tariff agenda? He spoke a lot about this yesterday, and there’s a couple of dates coming up that — MS. LEAVITT: Sure. Q — he’s spoken to. Number one, February 1st. He’s alluded to both the potential for tariffs for Canada and Mexico but also China to take effect on those days. Where is — what’s he thinking about that? MS. LEAVITT: Yeah. Q Should those countries expect that on the 1st? MS. LEAVITT: Again, he was asked and answered this question this past weekend when he took a lot of questions from the press, and he said that the February 1st date for Canada and Mexico still holds. Q And what about the China 10 percent tariff that he also had mused about last Tuesday going into effect on the same date? MS. LEAVITT: Yeah, the president has said that he is very much still considering that for February 1st. Q And then, separately, yesterday, he talked also about sectoral tariffs on, for instance, pharmaceuticals, as well as semiconductor computer chips. He talked about steel, aluminum, and copper. What’s the timeline on those? Is that a similar sort of “coming days” thing or — MS. LEAVITT: Yeah, so when the president talked about that in his speech yesterday, that actually wasn’t a new announcement. That was within a presidential memorandum that he signed in one of the first days here in the White House on his America First trade agenda. So, there’s more details on those tariffs in there. As far as a date, I don’t have a specific date to read out to you, but the president is committed to implementing tariffs effectively, just like he did in his first term. Q And then — and then, finally, he also was asked on the plane when he gaggled about the potential for a universal tariff. He was asked maybe about two and a half percent. MS. LEAVITT: Yeah. Q There was a report about that. He said he wanted “much bigger than that.” Should we understand that these tariffs would add up? You know, in other words, you might have country-specific tariffs like Canada, Mexico, China. You might have sectoral tariffs, like on pharmaceuticals, as well as a potential universal tariff on top of that. Do these stack on one or the other, or would one sort of take precedence over another? MS. LEAVITT: All I can point you to is what the president has said on this front: the February 1st date for Canada and Mexico and also the China tariff that he has discussed. He rejected the 2.5 percent tariff. He said that was a little bit too low. He wants it to be higher. I’ll leave it to him to make any decisions on that front. Q Do you have any comment on what the — (Cross-talk.) Q — what the Mexicans and Canadians — MS. LEAVITT: Phil. Q — have done so far? Do you have any comment on whether that has met the bar of what he wants to see on fentanyl? Thank you. MS. LEAVITT: I — I won’t get ahead of the president, again, on advocating to foreign nations on what they should or shouldn’t do to get away from these tariffs. The president has made it very clear, again, that he expects every nation around this world to cooperate with the repatriation of their citizens. And the president has also put out specific statements in terms of Canada and Mexico when it comes to what he expects in terms of border security. We have seen a historic level of cooperation from Mexico. But, again, as far as I’m still tracking — and that was last night talking to the president directly — February 1st is still on the books. Q Thank you. MS. LEAVITT: Phil. Q Thank you, Karoline. Quick programming note, and then a question on taxes. MS. LEAVITT: A programming note. Q Well, in terms of programming, should — MS. LEAVITT: That sounds fun. Q — we expect to see you here every day? How frequently will these — Q That’s a good question. Q — press briefings be? MS. LEAVITT: It is a good question, April. So, look, the president, as you know, is incredibly accessible. First day here, he wanted all of you in the Oval Office. You got a 60-minute press conference with the leader of the free world — while he was simultaneously signing executive orders, I may add. That’s pretty impressive. I don’t think the previous office holder would be able to pull such a thing off. So, look, the president is the best spokesperson that this White House has, and I can assure you that you will be hearing from both him and me as much as possible. Q And then a question about tax cuts. You know, the president has promised to extend the tax cuts from the previous term. I’m curious, you know, does the president support corresponding spending cuts, as some Republicans have called for in Congress? And will the new Treasury secretary be leading those negotiations with the Hill, as Mnuchin did during the first administration? MS. LEAVITT: The president is committed to both tax cuts and spending cuts. And he has a great team negotiating on his behalf, but there’s no better negotiator than Donald Trump, and I’m sure he’ll be involved in this reconciliation process as it moves forward. (Cross-talk.) Q Karoline, in the announcement that you made last night on the Iron Dome, it said the president had directed that the United States will build this Iron Dome. MS. LEAVITT: Yeah. Q When you read into the executive order, it seemed short of that. It asked for a series of studies — MS. LEAVITT: Yeah. Q — and reports back on — can you tell us whether the president has directed this and, if he is this concerned on this issue, why the suspensions that we saw listed by OMB included so many different nuclear programs, nonproliferation programs, programs to blend down nuclear weapons, and s- — and so forth? MS. LEAVITT: First of all, when it comes to the Iron Dome, the executive order directed the implementation of the — of an Iron Dome. It also, as you said, kind of directed research and studies to see if — or — or how the United States can go about doing this, particularly the Department of Defense. When it comes to the other question that you asked about those specific programs, again, I would say, this is not a — a ban; this is a temporary pause and a freeze to ensure that all of the money going out from Washington, D.C., is in align with the president’s agenda. And as the Office of Management and Budget has updates on what will be kick-started, once again, I will provide those to you. Q Can you clarify for a sec what you were saying before on Medicaid? It wasn’t clear to me whether you were saying that no Medicaid would be cut off. Obviously, a lot of this goes to states before it goes to individuals and so forth. So, are you guaranteeing here that no individual now on Medicaid would see a cutoff because of the pause? MS. LEAVITT: I’ll check back on that and get back to you. Jon. Q Thanks a lot, Karoline. As you know, in the first week that the president was in office, signed an executive order as it relates to birthright citizenship — trying to eliminate that. Now, 22 state attorney generals have said that this is unconstitutional. A federal judge has just agreed with their argument. What’s the administration’s argument for doing away with birthright citizenship? MS. LEAVITT: The folks that you mentioned have a right to have that legal opinion, but it is in disagreement with the legal opinion of this administration. This administration believes that birthright citizenship is unconstitutional, and that is why President Trump signed that executive order. Illegal immigrants who come to this country and have a child are not subject to the laws of this jurisdiction. That’s the opinion of this administration. We have already appealed the rul- — the lawsuit that was filed against this administration, and we are prepared to fight this all the way to the Supreme Court if we have to, because President Trump believes that this is a necessary step to secure our nation’s borders and protect our homeland. Monica. Q And then on foreign policy — on foreign policy, Karoline — Q Thank you, Karoline. It’s great to see you, and you’re doing a great — Q — on foreign policy, if I may. The president’s commitment to the NATO defense Alliance, is it as strong as the prior administration? Is it the same as when he served as president in his first term in office? MS. LEAVITT: As long as NATO pays their fair share. And President Trump has called on NATO Allies to increase their defense spending to 5 percent. You actually saw the head of NATO at Davos last week on Bloomberg Television saying that President Trump is right and if Europe wants to keep itself safe, they should increase their defense spending. I would just add that there was no greater ally to our European allies than President Trump in his first term. The world, for all nations in Europe, and, of course, here at home was much safer because of Presidents Tru- — Trump’s peace through strength diplomatic approach. Monica. Q Karoline — Q Thank you. Thank you, Karoline. And it’s great to finally be called on as well in the briefing room. I appreciate that. MS. LEAVITT: You’re welcome. Q Of course, we know President Trump just got back from North Carolina and California meeting with victims of natural disasters. There’s the two-year anniversary of the East Palestine, Ohio, toxic train derailment. Does the president have any plans to go visit the victims of that toxic spill or just visit in general? MS. LEAVITT: Not — no plans that I can read out for you here. If that changes, I will certainly keep you posted. What I can tell you is that President Trump still talks about his visit to East Palestine, Ohio. That was one of the turning points, I would say, in the previous election campaign, where Americans were reminded that President Trump is a man of the people. And he, as a candidate, visited that town that was just derailed by the train derailment — no pun intended — and he offered support and hope, just like I saw the president do this past week. It was a purposeful decision by this president, on his first domestic trip, to go to North Carolina and to California to visit with Americans who were impacted by Hurricane Helene and also by the deadly fires — a red state and a blue state, both of which feel forgotten by the previous administration and the federal government. That has now — that has now ended under President Trump. He will continue to put Americans first, whether they’re in East Palestine, in Pacific Palisades, or in North Carolina. (Cross-talk.) Sure. Q Thank you, Karoline. On California, could you please clarify what the military did with the water last night, as referenced in the president’s Truth Social post? MS. LEAVITT: The water has been turned back on in California, and this comes just days after President Trump visited Pacific Palisades and, as you all saw, applied tremendous pressure on state and local officials in Pacific Palisades, including Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass, to turn on the water and to direct that water to places in the south and in the middle of the state that have been incredibly dry, which has led to the expansion — the rapid expansion of these fires. Q So, could you clarify what the military’s role was, where the water came from, and how it got there? MS. LEAVITT: Again, the Army Corps of Engineers has been on the ground in California to respond to the devastation from these wildfires. And I would point out that just days after President Trump visited the devastation from these fires, the water was turned on. That is because of the pressure campaign he put on state and local officials there, who clearly lack all common sense. And I will never forget being at that round table with the president last week and hearing the frustration in the voices of Pacific Palisades residents who feel as though their government has just gone insane. Before President Trump showed up on the scene, Karen Bass was telling private property owners that they would have to wait 18 months to access their private property. So, this administration, the president and his team that’s on the ground in California — Ric Grenell, who he has designated to oversee this great crisis — ha- — will continue to put pressure on Karen Bass and state and local officials to allow residents to access their properties. This is a huge part of it. These residents want to take part in their own clearing out of their properties. They should be able to do that. It’s the United States of America. What happened to our freedom? Clearly, it’s gone in California, but not anymore under President Trump. Q Karoline — MS. LEAVITT: April. Q Karoline, welcome to the briefing room. MS. LEAVITT: Thank you. Q Several questions. One on the pause. Will minority-serving institutions, preferably colleges and universities, have those monies held back temporarily at this moment? MS. LEAVITT: Again, I have not seen the entire list, because this memo was just sent out. So, I will provide you all with updates as we receive them. Okay? Q Karoline — Q And secondly — als- — Q Karoline. Q Also, secondly, when it comes to immigration, there is this southern border focus. What happens to those who have overstayed their visas? That is part of the broken immigration system. In 2023, there was a report by the Biden administration, the Homeland Security Department, that said overstays of visas were three times more than usual. Will there be a focus on the overstays for visas as well? MS. LEAVITT: If an individual is overstaying their visa, they are therefore an illegal immigrant residing in this country, and they are subject to deportation. Q And also, lastly — MS. LEAVITT: Yes. Q Lastly, as we’re dealing with anti-DEI, anti-woke efforts, we understand this administration could — is thinking about celebrating Black History Month. Have you got any word on that? Anything that you can offer to us? MS. LEAVITT: As far as I know, this White House certainly still intends to celebrate, and we will continue to celebrate American history and the contributions that all Americans, regardless of race, religion, or creed, have made to our great country. And America is back. Christian Datoc. Q Thanks, Karoline. Just real quick. You mentioned the inflation executive order the president signed, but egg prices have skyrocketed since President Trump took office. So, what specifically is he doing to lower those costs for Americans? MS. LEAVITT: Really glad you brought this up, because there is a lot of reporting out there that is putting the onus on this White House for the increased cost of eggs. I would like to point out to each and every one of you that, in 2024, when Joe Biden was in the Oval Office — or upstairs in the residence sleeping; I’m not so sure — egg prices increased 65 percent in this country. We also have seen the cost of everything, not just eggs — bacon, groceries, gasoline — have increased because of the inflationary policies of the last administration. As far as the egg shortage, what’s also contributing to that is that the Biden administration and the Department of Agriculture directed the mass killing of more than 100 million chickens, which has led to a lack of chicken supply in this country, therefore a lack of egg supply, which is leading to the shortage. So, I will leave you with this point. This is an example of why it’s so incredibly important that the Senate moves swiftly to confirm all of President Trump’s nominees, including his nominee for the United States Department of Agriculture, Brooke Rollins, who is already speaking with Kevin Hassett, who is leading the economic team here at the White House, on how we can address the egg shortage in this country. As for cots, I laid out — costs — I laid out the plethora of ways that President Trump has addressed saving costs for the American people over the past week. He looks forward to continuing to doing that — Q Karoline, what — MS. LEAVITT: — in the days ahead. (Cross-talk.) Thank you, guys, so much. I’ll see you soon. END 1:52 P.M. EST 
9:00 P.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: Hello, everybody. Hello. Q Hello. THE PRESIDENT: Hello, everybody. So, you just saw this. (The president holds up a USA Today article entitled “How America voted, which counties shifted toward Trump and a look at voter turnout.”) This just came out, and I’d say that’s quite good. Right? By any standard, that’s quite good. I shouldn’t leave USA — is anybody here from USA Today? Q Yesterday, we had someone from — THE PRESIDENT: Yesterday. We missed him. Does everybody know Steven Cheung? He’s a sweetheart. You wouldn’t want to get in a fight with him, right? Anyway, what’s up? Q Mr. President, the TikTok deal, any developments there? THE PRESIDENT: No, there’s a lot of people interested in TikTok, and I think we have a chance of doing something good. And we’ll be speaking to China about that also, because they’re a party to it, obviously. But it would be great to keep TikTok alive, sell it to somebody that’s going to do a great job with it. Q Did you see the CEO today at the event, sir? THE PRESIDENT: Did I what? Q Did you see the CEO today at the event? THE PRESIDENT: No, I didn’t. I didn’t speak to him. Was he there? Q He was supposed to be there. THE PRESIDENT: I think so, yeah, but I did not see him. Q Sir, Elon Musk is proposing potentially giving money to Americans based on what DOGE is finding. Do you have any thoughts on that? THE PRESIDENT: I love it. A 20 percent dividend, so to speak, for the money that we’re saving by going after the waste and fraud and abuse and all of the other things that are happening. I think it’s a great idea. Q How much money do you think Americans — THE PRESIDENT: It could be a lot. I mean, if it’s 20 percent, we’d give back a lot of money to the taxpayer. And also, it’d give an incentive for the taxpayer to go out and report things to us where we can save money. Q So, you signed an immigration-related executive order today. Ho- — what do you think of ICE arrests right now? Do you think that they need to increase the number of people they’re arresting — THE PRESIDENT: Where? Q — increase the — the pace of the ICE arrests? THE PRESIDENT: No, I think they’re doing a great job. You know, you have people that are hiding. They are professionals at hiding. That’s what they’ve done for a big part of their lives. And they’re criminals. In many cases, very serious criminals, including murderers. And, obviously, they’re not easy to capture, but they’re being captured in record numbers, and they’re being brought out of our country, being brought back to where they came from. Q Mr. President, on Boeing. You mentioned maybe taking a different route. What would a different route entail? THE PRESIDENT: On what? Q On Boeing, with the Air Force One plane. THE PRESIDENT: No, I’m not happy with Boeing. It takes them a long time to do — You know, Air Force One, we gave that contract out a long time ago. It was a fixed-price contract, and I’m not happy with the fact that it’s taking so long. And we may do something else. We may go out and buy a plane or get a plane or something, but I’m not happy with the fact that it’s taken Boeing so long. There no excuse for it. (Cross-talk.) And, you know, they had a fixed-price contract. I made that deal, and now they — supposedly, they’re losing a lot of money and they’d like to see if they could, you know, up the price. But I make fixed-price deals. I don’t like time and material deals. Q Sir, the only other commercial aircraft maker that could make a plane that big is Airbus. Would you consider buying a — THE PRESIDENT: No, I would not consider Airbus over Boeing, no. But I could buy one that was used and convert it. I could buy one from another country, perhaps, or get one from another country. So, we’re looking at other alternatives, because it’s taking Boeing too long. (Cross-talk.) You know, they were supposed to be finished, like, years ago. Q Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: Years ago. Q Sir, and you — THE PRESIDENT: Don’t forget, I signed that contract during my term, and it was a very good contract. And I took, like, a billion six off the price, and it was supposed to be done, you know, quickly, and it’s a long time. Right? Q Would you push for your preferred color scheme for Air Force One? THE PRESIDENT: Oh, no, it’s going to be that color, yeah. No matter what, it’s going to be for that color. Q Sir, about Gaza. Do you e- — do you find the Egyptian proposal to redevelop Gaza acceptable? And does that change your — THE PRESIDENT: I haven’t seen it. I haven’t seen it. When I see it, I’ll let you know. Q Sir, can I you about Ukraine? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q You — you said today that you had a deal on critical minerals, and Ukraine broke it. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, we had a deal where we were going to get — look, you have to understand, Europe is being paid back the money that they put up, and they’re only putting up a fraction of what we’re putting up. I think they’re in for $100 billion, and we’re in for $350 billion. There’s no reason that should have happened. It’s Biden’s fault. He shouldn’t have allowed that to happen. But on top of it all, they’re getting their $100 billion back, and we’re not. And I’ve been talking about this for two years. I said, “You have to loan them the money so that if things work out, they’re going to pay you back.” And they didn’t do that. So, Biden didn’t do it. It’s his fault. Nobody has ever seen anything so stupid. So, Europe gets their money back, and they’re only in for a small fraction. And, obviously, everything is important, but it’s more important for them because they’re right next to Russia. So, it’s more important than — we have an ocean in between us. So, it’s obviously more important to the European countries than it is to the U.S. (Cross-talk.) But here’s the thing, we don’t get our money back. And we told them that the deal is we’ll do something for the rare earth and some oil, et cetera, et cetera, and that would be all right. And they agreed to it, more or less. And then Scott Bessent actually went there and was treated rather rudely, because — essentially, they told him no, and Zelenskyy was sleeping and unavailable to meet him. He traveled many hours on the train, which is a dangerous trip. And we’re talking about the secretary of the Treasury. He went there to get a document signed. And when he got there, he came back empty. They wouldn’t sign the document. But for Europe, they pay back their money. It’s a loan. Think of that. And we should’ve had a loan, too, but we had an administration that was incompetent. Q Can you resurrect that deal? Is there anything that you can do? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, I think I’m going to resurrect it, or, you know, we’ll see what happens. But I’m going to resurrect it, or things are not going to make him too happy. And, look, it’s time for elections. They haven’t had an election in a long time. It’s wonderful to say, “You know, we can’t have an election.” But it’s time for elections. And it’s also time to find out what happened with all the money, because he made the statement that half of it he doesn’t know where it is or something like that. And I’d like to find out: All the money that we’ve been sending to Ukraine, where is it? And I can tell you we’re doing very well with Russia. We’re going to do something with Russia that he was unable to do. We can make a deal with Russia to stop the killing of, you know, potentially additional millions of people. The soldiers are being just wiped out on both sides. Wiped out. It’s horrible. You know, the weaponry today is so powerful, so, you know, strong that it’s killing a lot of soldiers. And I don’t want to sol- — they’re Russian and they’re Ukrainian. I don’t want to see those soldiers killed. They have mothers and fathers. They have sisters and brothers. I don’t want to see them killed. Q Mr. President, on tariffs, you mentioned lumber. That’s something that I don’t believe we’ve heard before. Any specific — THE PRESIDENT: Lumber, yeah. Forest — forest product, yeah. Q And do you have a rate in mind for that? THE PRESIDENT: No, but we’re thinking about maybe 25 percent. Q And would that also be April 2nd? On or before April 2nd? THE PRESIDENT: In that vicinity, yeah. A little bit later. Q And also, which car companies did you — you said that you spoke with some car companies. THE PRESIDENT: I spoke to all car companies. Everybody is coming back into America. Q So, these are foreign car companies? THE PRESIDENT: Including foreign companies, yeah. They’re going to be coming in, because they don’t want to pay the tariffs. Q You said you’ll be having lunch with some Democrats next week. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q Can you elaborate on who that is and what you all plan to discuss? THE PRESIDENT: Well, you’ll see when I do it, but some good ones. Q Are you — THE PRESIDENT: Some biggies. Q Are you con- — are you concerned about congressional funding? THE PRESIDENT: No, I’m just — Q Is that on the table? THE PRESIDENT: I think we’re going to just talk. I think it would be great if Republicans and Democrats could get along. It’s time. It’s time. It makes sense. Q Sir, would you say you trust the Russians to negotiate in good faith going forward? Do you trust them? THE PRESIDENT: I do. I think the Russians want to see the war end. And I do. I really do. But I think they have the cards a little bit, because, you know, they’re — they’ve taken a lot of territory, so they have the cards. Q Mr. President, have you set a date for the British prime minister’s visit to Washington? THE PRESIDENT: No. He’ll be coming soon, though. He has asked to come and see me. So, he’ll be coming. Q What about Macron? THE PRESIDENT: And president of France also. Macron will be coming. Q But no set dates yet? THE PRESIDENT: Very soon. Maybe Monday. Q Mr. President, on congestion pricing. So — they’re going to be — it’s supposed to have saved about — or raised about $15 billion to help the MTA. Do you have an alternative way that — to fund the MTA system now that there won’t be cong- — THE PRESIDENT: No, that’s up to New York. They have to do that. Look, New York has treated a lot of people very badly. And it’s hard to — you know, it’s hard to feel sorry for what’s happened in New York. It’s sad to see the way they’ve treated people, and they continue to do it. And, you know, look at what’s going on with the mayor. Look at what’s going on with so many other things. So, congestion pricing is not a good situation, and they’re treating the people of New York very badly. That’s a — supposing you worked in a shoe shop or you worked in a restaurant as a waiter, and you have to come into Manhattan, and they’re taking, you know, many, many dollars out of your pocket. You can’t afford to do it. And price — you know, you — if you take a look, traffic will go down because people aren’t going to come. If people don’t come, that means the whole place is — it’s going to be a disaster. So, it could be, and it’s probably going to show that. Traffic will come down, but that means they’re not going to spend their money in New York. They’ll go someplace else. Q (Inaudible) prepared to go to court if lawsuits ensue? THE PRESIDENT: Well, we’ll see what happens. You could give me the final, because I haven’t seen it as of late today because I was making a speech. Did I make a good speech? Yes. Okay. Go ahead. What else? Q Can I ask you about the Chinese? So, you know, eventually, you would like to meet with President Xi. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q But we heard — THE PRESIDENT: I have very good relationship with President Xi. I think a great relationship with President Xi. But remember, he loves China, and I love the USA. So, you know, right there, there’s a little bit of competitiveness. But the relationship I have with President Xi is, I would say, a great one. Q We heard that you — THE PRESIDENT: It was obviously hurt by COVID coming in. It hurt them, hurt us, hurt everybody. Hurt the whole world. But outside of that, I have a very, very good relationship with President Xi. Q Are you looking to make a new trade deal? THE PRESIDENT: I think he’s — I think he’s — I think he’s a very unique person. Q Would you make a new trade deal with China? I mean, you know, the — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, it’s possible. Q One trade deal never really got — THE PRESIDENT: It’s possible. Well, we did a great trade deal with China. We did it — great for the farmers, great for manufacturers. They had to buy 50 billion dollars’ worth of our product, and we were making them buy it. The problem is that Biden didn’t push them to adhere to it. Q Sir, do you think D.C. should govern itself, or do you think that governing of District of Columbia should go back to Congress? THE PRESIDENT: I think that we should govern District of Columbia. It’s so important, the D.C. situation. I think that we should run it strong, run it with law and order, make it absolutely flawlessly beautiful. And I think we should take over Washington, D.C. Make it safe. People are getting killed. People are being hurt. You have great police department there, but, somehow, they’re not utilized properly. We should govern D.C. I think the federal government should take over the governance of D.C. and run it really, really properly. And I like the mayor. I get along great with the mayor, but they’re not doing the job. Too much crime. Too much graffiti. Too many tents on the lawns of these magnificent lawns, and there’s tents. And, you know, it’s a — it’s a sad thing. You know, homeless people all over the place, and we got to take care of the homeless. But you can’t have that in Washington, D.C. You know, when they come over to see me — like Macron is coming and the prime minister of UK is coming and all these people are coming over to see me — we’ll have, ultimately, President Xi, and we’ll have everybody coming, right? And you can’t let that be. You just can’t let that happen. You can’t have tents all over your beautiful — your once magnificent plazas and lawns and all of it. You just can’t do it. (Cross-talk.) MR. CHEUNG: We’ll do — we’ll do a couple more. Q Sir, do you think you can still pay for extending your tax cuts without cutting both Medicaid and Medicare? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, absolutely. Q House Republicans are planning to make cuts to Med- — THE PRESIDENT: Well, I think we’re going to take in tremendous tariff money, number one. And number two, you take a look at DOGE, and you see what’s happening. We’re saving billions of dollars. Q On DOGE. Do you know what they’re looking at, specifically, at the Department of Defense right now? And — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, they’re looking at everything. Q And are they going to cut more national security — THE PRESIDENT: They’re looking — and we’re going to go into Fort Knox to make sure the gold is there. Q Are they going to cut more — THE PRESIDENT: Do you know that? We’re going to go into Fort Knox. Do you know about that? Q Sir — sir — (Air Force One experiences turbulence.) THE PRESIDENT: That was a bad bump. Q Are they going to eliminate more national security positions, civilians there at DOD? THE PRESIDENT: We’ll see what happens. But one of the things — we do want to look. I mean, we hope everything’s fine with Fort Knox, but we’re going to go to Fort Knox — the fabled Fort Knox — to make sure the gold is there. Q Where would the gold have gone? THE PRESIDENT: If the gold isn’t there, we’re going to be very upset. Q Can you bring us along? Q You haven’t brought up Greenland in a — in a while. Are you seeing — THE PRESIDENT: No, no, very — we need Greenland from the standpoint of national security and international security. We have to do something with Greenland. We have to protect Greenland. But we need it for national security, and we need it, maybe more importantly, for international security. (Cross-talk.) MR. CHEUNG: All right, we’ll just do one more. One more. Q Can I just follow up? Are you seeing it as part of any of the discussions you’re having with Europeans and Putin in some sort of peace deal? THE PRESIDENT: No, no. We have to have Greenland because of the national security picture, even more so now than it would have been 20 years ago, 30 years ago, when they talked about it then too. You know, they used to talk about it. Years ago, they were talking about Greenland, but much more so now with, you know, modern weaponry, planes and the speed of planes, and all of the things. So, we have to have Greenland. Thank you very much. END 9:14 P.M. EST
PRESS GAGGLE BY PRESIDENT TRUMP Aboard Air Force One En Route Miami, Florida (January 25, 2025) 3:07 P.M. PST Q Welcome back, Mr. President. THE PRESIDENT: Hello, everybody. How are you? Q Welcome back. THE PRESIDENT: Welcome back to you. Q How are you liking Air Force One so far, sir? THE PRESIDENT: I think it’s nice. Hasn’t changed. Q Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: Hasn’t changed very much. How’s everything going? Good? Everybody happy? Q Yes, very much so. THE PRESIDENT: You’re getting a little bit more access to your president than you did the last time, slightly — like, by about 5,000 percent. (Laughter.) We had a very good week — first week. Almost complete. I guess one day is left, if you think about it. We’re heading to Florida. We’re going to be at Doral because I’m making a speech there the following day for a group — a very important group. And then, I guess we come back to Washington. So, we’re heading, as you know, to Miami — Doral. Okay. Any questions? Q Are you going to get a round of golf in? THE PRESIDENT: No, I don’t think so. It’s so busy. Q What’s your favorite part on the plane, Mr. President? What do you like — you know? THE PRESIDENT: Which plane? Q Like, this one. Air Force One. When you were back, what did you like — THE PRESIDENT: The plane? No, I’ve been on the plane many, many times, as you know. It’s a great plane. It’s a special plane. Q Do you still want to change the colors? THE PRESIDENT: Who? Q Do you still want to change the colors — the exterior? THE PRESIDENT: I would change them. Sure. It’d be a much more appropriate plane, rather than the baby blue. We want power blue, not baby blue. But no, you know, this is nice, but everything has its time and place. We’ll be changing the colors. Q Can you talk to us about the firing of the inspectors general? Why did you do that? And is it the — THE PRESIDENT: Because it’s a very common thing to do. And not all of them. Michael Horowitz, we’re keeping. I thought his report on Comey was incredible, actually. It was such an accurate, well-done report. I only wish Bill Barr used it, which he chose not to. But it was — it was an incredible report. Michael Horowitz wrote the definitive report on James Comey and the FBI. It really got that going. And I understand. I don’t know them, but some people thought that some were unfair or some were not doing the job. And it’s a very standard thing to do, very much like the U.S. attorneys. Q Do you plan to bring your own people in those positions, Mr. President? THE PRESIDENT: Which people? Q The — in the — in the inspectors general role? THE PRESIDENT: It’s not my people. They’re not my people. I don’t know anybody that would do that, but we’ll put people in there that will be very good. Q Mr. President, there’s reports that Elon Musk now must go through Susie Wiles and that he doesn’t have an office in the West Wing. I’m curious if — how you feel about that. THE PRESIDENT: No, no, not — it’s not Elon’s office. We have an office that’s set up for purposes of — when I do an executive order, that the order is carried out, not that it sits around for three months. And we’ll have about 20 people, maybe more, working out of that office. It’s really an office for a lot of people that go and make sure that the executive office — You know, when I do an executive document, very important executive do- — I want to make sure that that is done. And there’s about 20 or 25 people that will be working out of that office, and it’s really a “go get ‘em” office to make sure it gets done. That’s what that is. Q So, you’re a week in now to your presidency. How does it compare to your first week in 2017? Did you learn any lessons or are you trying to do something differently? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I come in now with great knowledge and experience and you could say that no — if you call it “new president” has ever had this kind of experience, that’s for sure. Whereas before, I had never done it before, but we did well. We had a very — we had a great presidency, but this one could be really outstanding. I think you’re seeing the same reports that I see. And you write the reports. Most of you are writing the important reports. We’re getting A-pluses on the work done and also the amount of work done. I mean, nobody else has done this. You go to North Carolina. Then you go to Los Angeles. And then you stop on the way home and — and that was “no tax on tips,” but it was really a stop to thank the people of Nevada for having been — you know, it’s a very hard state to win as a — as a Republican, and we won it very conclusively. So, it was really more of a thank you to the people of Nevada. So, I stopped there. And I have a lot of meetings once I get back, once I get to Miami. But no, it’s — I think we had — people are saying it was the most successful first week that anybody can remember a president having. Q Mr. President, you were so nice to Governor Newsom yesterday. No “News-” — you know, “Governor Newscum.” What was that about? THE PRESIDENT: I decided to be nice. It was nice that he came to the plane, honestly. You know, I didn’t know he’d be at the plane. It was nice that he came to the plane. And in the end, you know, we have the same goal. We want to make — take that catastrophe and make it as good as possible. We disagree in some things. I guess he’s not so set on water, and I like water for putting out fires. I find it to be extremely good. Very — a little old fashioned, but about the best thing that God has ever created for putting out fires. And so, we’re going to be doing something on that. But no, I get along — I actually always got along with him well until fairly recently. Q If I could ask you about the first lady — THE PRESIDENT: And I very much — you know, I very much predicted that was going to happen. Because if you go back, like, six years, I said, “If you don’t start getting this place taken care of and mitigating some of the problems that are here, you’re going to end up with a fire like you had ever seen.” I turned out to be right. Q If I could ask you about the first lady. She seems to be taking a more public-facing role. I just wonder how you envision her spending the next four years. THE PRESIDENT: Well, I think she was always very much involved, but you didn’t see her — more behind the scenes. But she was always a “front of the scenes” person, and I think she really wanted — she felt badly about North Carolina, and she felt very badly about California. Los Angeles — got a lot of friends. I have a lot of friends in North Carolina and — and both. And she has a lot of friends in California. So, she wanted to be with me for that. Yeah. For both of them. Q Mr. President, is your preference for Larry Ellison to work to obtain TikTok? Or do you have any preference on how this deal is going? THE PRESIDENT: I haven’t spoken — Larry is a friend of mine. Lives in — you know, right in — near Mar-a-Lago, right down the road. I never spoke to Larry about TikTok. Q But there is — THE PRESIDENT: I’ve spoken to many people about TikTok, and there’s great interest in TikTok. And as you know, I have the right to sell it or close it, depending on what I think is best for the country. So, we’ll make a decision over the next 90 days or so. Q There is a report, Mr. President, that says that you are putting together a deal with Oracle and outside investors to help them buy TikTok and save TikTok. Is that happening? THE PRESIDENT: No, not with Oracle. With — numerous people are talking to me — very substantial people — about buying it. And I’d make that decision over the next — probably over the next 30 days. I have 90 days. Congress has given 90 days, and we’ll see. If we could save TikTok, I think it would be a good thing. So, we’ll make a decision. We have a lot of interest in it. And the United States will be a big beneficiary if we do it. I’d only do it if the United States benefits. I mean, I have a warm spot in my heart for TikTok because I won on TikTok — and I ended up winning by a lot — young people. And as you know, Republicans historically — I don’t think — ever won young people, and I won them by a lot. So, I do have a little bit of a warm spot. But, you know, it’s a very popular site, and the kids are loving it, and some of the parents are loving it. And if we can save it, I think that would be a very good thing. And I think it would be economically good for America. Q Mr. President, could I ask you about Ukraine? Do you have any update on when you are going to talk to Russian president Vad- — Russian President Putin? THE PRESIDENT: He wants to speak, and we’ll be speaking soon. And I’ve spoken to President Zelenskyy numerous times, and they’d like to see peace. They would like to see an end to the war. And I think President Putin would like to see an end to the war too. So, we’ll see if we can help it along. Q On the — THE PRESIDENT: I think it’s a shame. It’s a war that would have never happened if I were president. It’s a shame. Q We’ve seen a lot of people being fired from the federal government. What’s the sort of criterion you’re using for this? Is it loyalty to you? And can we expect more of these purges? THE PRESIDENT: You have to show up to work, basically. You have to show up to work. You have to go to your office, and you have to work. And otherwise, you’re not going to have a job. Q Do you worry that that limits the pool of talent? THE PRESIDENT: No, I think the talent is deep. We have very deep talent. But we also have a lot of excess people. You know, this was just a — this was a gimmick for Democrats, to a certain extent. But we have a lot of excess people, but the talent is very deep. Q Now that you’ve done your first domestic trip, have you given any thought to where you want to go for your first international trip? THE PRESIDENT: Well, it could be Saudi Arabia. It could be UK. Traditionally, it’s been UK. Last time, I went to Saudi Arabia because they agreed to buy 450 billion dollars’ worth of United States merchandise, including a lot of military equipment and farm equipment and other equipment. And if that offer were right, I’d do that again. Q If you go to the UK, do you think you’ll get along with Keir Starmer and the Labor government? THE PRESIDENT: I do. I mean, I’ve met him already three times. He’s come over to see me twice. I have a call — he and I have a call over the next 24 hours. No, I get along with him well. I like him a lot. He’s liberal, which is a little bit different for me. But I think he’s a very good person. I think he’s — he’s done a very good job thus far. He’s very new on the job, but he’s represented his country in terms of his philosophy. I may not agree with his philosophy, but I have a very good relationship with him. I’ve seen him twice. Had dinner with him at Trump Tower, as you probably know. You know that, right? Q Just on Saudi, Mr. President. You spoke to the crown prince. Did you discuss a normalization deal between Israel and Saudi? THE PRESIDENT: No, I discussed getting oil prices down. Because if you get oil prices down, Russia will stop the war, and Biden should have never allowed them to go up so high. When Biden let them go up to that level, he was just inducing Russia, which sells oil, to go into a war. So, he should have never allowed — the Democrats, namely Biden, allowed oil prices to go up. That’s one of the reasons that you have the Ukraine catastrophe. Q How do you bring the prices down? THE PRESIDENT: Volume. Yeah. Q (Inaudible) increasing production. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q Can you tell us about your call with the king of Jordan today, please? THE PRESIDENT: It was a very good call. He’s a friend of mine. I know him very well. I’ve gotten along with him over the years very well, and he’s done a wonderful job. He really houses, you know, millions of Palestinians, and he does it in a very humane way. And I compliment him on that. But he really — Jordan has done an amazing job of housing largely Palestin- — Palestinians. And he’s done it in a very successful way. Q So, what was the subject of discussion? Was it — was it — THE PRESIDENT: It was that. I said to him, “I’d love you to take on more.” Because I’m looking at the whole Gaza Strip right now, and it’s a mess. It’s a real mess. Q So, you’d like Jordan to house people from Gaza? THE PRESIDENT: You have to take people. I’d like Egypt to take people. I’m meeting with — I’m talking to General el-Sisi tomorrow — sometime, I believe. And I’d like Egypt to take people, and I’d like Jordan to take people. I can — I mean, you’re talking about probably a million and a half people, and we just clean out that whole thing. It’s — you know, it’s — over the centuries, that’s — that’s many, many conflicts, that site. And I don’t know. It’s something has to happen, but it’s literally a demolition site right now. Almost everything is demolished, and people are dying there. So, I’d rather get involved with some of the Arab nations and build housing at a different location where they can maybe live in peace for a change. Q Temporary? Or would they — would they ever go back? THE PRESIDENT: It could be either. It could be temporarily, could be long term. Q Go ahead. Q You’ve spoken about artificial intelligence quite a bit this week. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q Do you have any concerns about the risks to — to humanity about artificial superintelligence? THE PRESIDENT: Well, look, artificial intelligence is the — it’s where all of the smart countries want to be going. Great for coming up with cures to disease, great with coming up with everything, but there are always risks. And it’s the first question I ask: How do you absolve yourself from (inaudible), et cetera? Because it could be the rabbit that gets away. We’re not going to let that happen. But it’s going to be the biggest field — maybe the biggest field in the world, and we’re going to be equipped to take it. And we’re already leading. I mean, we’re going to be leading. Very shortly, we’re going to be leading by a lot. What they do need is tremendous energy. They need electricity at levels that nobody has ever seen before, and we’ll be able to supply that electric. I’m going to use — Q The Pentagon — THE PRESIDENT: I’ll be using emergency power to give that electric. Q The Pentagon, Mr. President, just lifted a hold on 2,000-pound bombs for Israel, which was blocked by Biden. Can you — do you have a comment on that, sir? THE PRESIDENT: On the what? Q On the 2,000-pound bombs — THE PRESIDENT: Oh. Q — that Biden had put a hold on. THE PRESIDENT: We released them. Q Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: We released them today, and they’ll have them, and they paid for them, and, you know, they’ve been waiting for them for a long time. They’ve been in storage for a long time. But we released them today to Israel. Q Why did you do that, sir? THE PRESIDENT: Because they bought them. Q There are reports, Mr. President, that you spoke to the Danish prime minister and she told you Greenland is not for sale. Will you take no for an answer on that? THE PRESIDENT: Who are you with? Q CNN. THE PRESIDENT: Oh. Q (Laughs.) Your favorite. THE PRESIDENT: No, they’re terrible. Honestly, that’s why they’re going out of business. It’s terrible. Or they’ll be bought cheap. Maybe some rich guy will buy them cheap. But anyway, it’s just the tone of your question every time. I think Greenland will be worked out with us. I think we’re going to have it. And I think the people want to be with us, as you know. There’s 55,000 people there. They want to be with us. I don’t know, really, what claim Denmark has to it, but it would be a very unfriendly act if they didn’t allow that to happen. Because that’s for protection of the free world. It’s not for us; it’s for the free world. Right now, you have Russian ships. You have China ships. You have ships from various countries. It’s not a good situation. And I believe we’ll get that. Yeah, I do believe it. I think we’ll get other things too that you’re talking about, that nobody knows. But I think we’ll get other — other things. But I do believe Greenland we’ll get, because it really has to do with freedom of the world, not just freedom of — it has nothing to do with the United States, other than we’re the one that can provide the freedom. They can’t. They can’t. I mean, they put two dog sleds there two weeks ago. They thought that was protection. Q But the other thing is Canada — THE PRESIDENT: And you know what? The people don’t like the way they’ve been treated by Denmark. They don’t like the way they’ve been treated by Denmark. And they do like us. Q Mr. President, on the Senate confirmations, Senat- — or Vice President JD Vance had to come and — to pass the tiebreaking vote. I’m curious if you’re concerned at all about any of the other nominees. THE PRESIDENT: No. Whatever it is, it is. I think they’re doing well. I think we just had a big — a big win today, as you know. Kristi Noem, I think, will be outstanding at Homeland. And we have some other ones going. And no, I don’t — you know, I don’t see any major problems. Q The U.S. — the U.S. has suspended most foreign aid, including PEPFAR, which is a program that’s credited with saving millions of lives in Africa. Is there a timeline for opening up U.S. aid? Is there a review — THE PRESIDENT: We’ll see — we’ll see about that. But we want other people to join us, because we’re like a one-way street. So, we want other people to help us, and we want other people to join us. We’re spending billions and billions and billions of dollars, and other countries that are wealthy are spending zero. And we want them to help. Why should we be the only one? So, they understand that. They’ve been told that. It’s a little like NATO. I mean, we were spending — we were almost paying for all of NATO. And yet, they were taking advantage of us on trade. Similar countries. The same and similar countries. And after I got involved, they were paying a lot of money on NATO. The Secretary General was very generous in his statements about me with respect to NATO. So, we’ll see. I think NATO should be more too, though. I think it should be more than the two. It should be — should be five, actually. Q The CIA, Mr. President, prefers to — prefers the lab leak theory to explain COVID’s origins now. I was curious to hear your thoughts on that. THE PRESIDENT: Well, you have a good man there. A very good man. And John is — he’s just gotten approved, as you know. John Ratcliffe also got approved. And I’d rather have you ask him that question. He’ll be — he knows everything about it right now. Q Have you had a chance — have you given any thought to the future of the air base at Diego Garcia, which, as you know, is part of the Chagos Islands, which Britain is returning to the Mauritius islands. There are concerns that could open it up to spying by Iran or China. Do you have — THE PRESIDENT: I mean, it hasn’t been number one on my list, I’ll be honest with you. That was not number one. Q (Inaudible) you didn’t talk about Canada, about the Panama Canal. You mentioned today expansion — THE PRESIDENT: I think Canada has been treating us very unfairly on trade, and they’ve taken advantage of us for years, and we’re not going to allow that to happen. I love Canada. I have so many friends up in Canada, and they like us and they like me. But Canada has been taking advantage of the United States for years, and we’re not going to let that happen. And without our subsidy, Canada, you know, doesn’t exist really. It’s very — it’s — Canada is totally reliant on us, therefore they should be a state. Canada — we lose $250 billion a year on Canada. I could stop that in one day. And if I stopped that, Canada wouldn’t exist as a state, you know, as a — as a country. And I think if that’s going to — if we’re going to have to give that kind of subsidy — and we’re not even talking about tariffs yet, but that’ll happen on February 1st. But if we’re going to lose $250 billion for the sake of supporting a country, it’s not fair to us. And they do about almost 90 percent of their business with the United States, whereas with us, it’s the opposite. It’s, you know, relatively small. So, I don’t want to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on supporting a country unless that country is a state. And if it is a state, the people of Canada would pay a much lower tax. You know, their taxes would be cut in half. They would have no military problems. They’d be much more secure in every way. And I think it’s a great thing for Canada. And I view it as, you know, honestly, a country that should be a state, and they’ll get much better treatment, much better care, and much lower taxes, and they’ll be much more secure. Thank you very much, everybody. Q Thank you for coming back. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. END 3:27 P.M. PST
Faena Hotel & Forum Miami Beach, Florida (February 19, 2025) 5:35 P.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. (Applause.) What a great group this is. You have to see outside. It’s going wild outside with a lot of love for all of us, I guess. (Laughter.) But thank you, Richard, for the introduction. And thank you to all for such a warm welcome. It’s great to be back in beautiful Miami, where I’ve actually built a lot of great buildings with the Dezer family and some others. We’ve had tremendous success in Miami. We have Trump Towers in Sunny Isles Beach. It’s four beautiful buildings right on the ocean. The Trump Grande — put the little E on the end for a little — class it up a little bit. (Laughter.) Trump Grande. And the 700-acre Doral. That’s a tremendous country club in the — it’s actually the most successful country club in the U.S., where I was just given approval to build 1,500 units. And I couldn’t care less about building units. When you’re president, who the hell wants to build units? (Laughter.) I’ve been building units all my life. I don’t want to build units, but they gave us permission to do it. But today is a tremendous honor to become the first American president to address the Future Investment Initiative Institute. That’s the first one. That’s very — it’s always nice. (Applause.) And I want to thank Mayor of Miami Francis Suarez for being here. Thank you very much, Francis, wherever you may be. (Applause.) Hi, Francis. And thank you for the endorsement when I ran. I was very appreciative. Along with the mayor of Miami Beach, Steven Meiner. Steven, thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you, Steven. Thank you very much. And numerous American business leaders, some of the bi- — biggest business leaders, actually, anywhere in the world, and many distinguished guests from the Middle East, and, in particular, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia — a special place with special leaders. (Applause.) And including FII Institute chairman and governor of the Public Investment Fund, which is a seriously big fund, Yasir. I see you there. Stand up, Yasir. (Applause.) Everyone knows Yasir. Thank you. Great guy. Great, great person. And Finance Minister Mohammed, thank you very much. Thank you right — thank you very much. (Applause.) Good to see you again. That’s pretty good: finance minister of that part of the world. That’s not bad. (Laughter.) Other parts of the world, not so good, but that one is good. (Laughter.) And many other senior government leaders. I also want to recognize the Kingdom’s ambassador to the United States, Her Royal Highness Princess Reema. (Applause.) Ooh, very popular. Very popular. Wow. That’s very nice. Sitting next to Elon. Wow, that’s — you couldn’t do better than that, huh? (Applause.) As well as my own special envoy to the Middle East, who has really done a fantastic job, Steve Witkoff. Thank you, Steve. (Applause.) He’s been busy. And Michael Waltz is here. Where is Michael? Michael has been so busy. They’ve been going back and forth and back. And a woman who was just voted the most powerful woman an- — anywhere in the world — (applause) — no, I’ll go with — I’m going to go with Princess Reema — but she was voted the most powerful woman anywhere in the world: Susie Wiles. Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you. Most powerful woman, that’s pretty good. We have to talk to you about that, Susie. That’s pretty good. (Laughter.) And also, we all know Jared Kushner, a very special guy. (Applause.) Thank you, Jared. Thank you, Jared. And Elon Musk. He’s been making a little news lately, hasn’t he, though? (Applause.) Very positive news. Stand up, Elon. (Applause.) He’s a great guy. We did a little show last night. I heard that it got very good ratings, too, by the way. We did “Hannity.” Sean Hannity was fantastic — a fantastic man, a fantastic guy, and he did a show. And it was great being on the show with you last night. I come today with a simple message for business leaders from all across the nation and all around the world: If you want to build the future, push boundaries, unleash breakthroughs, transform industries, and make a fortune — because you want to make fortune; most of you have already made a fortune, I don’t want to say — (laughter) — there is no better place on Earth than the current and future United States of America under a certain president named Donald J. Trump. I think that you’re going to do very well. (Applause.) They’re saying that November 5th — Election Day — 2024, will go down as one of the most important days in the history of our country. They said, “In 129 years, the most consequential election.” I don’t know if they’re right about that or not, but it sounds good. I wanted to see if I could get a couple of more years tacked on, but I figured the fight wasn’t really worth it. One hundred and twenty-nine is a lot. And as of January 20th, 2025, the dark days of high taxes, crushing regulations, rampant inflation, flagrant corruption, government weaponization — ooh, I know about weaponization — and total incompetence will be gone forever. Will be gone forever. (Applause.) Because the United States is back and open for business, and the golden age of America has officially begun. You see it happening. (Applause.) Since my election, America’s economic engines have come roaring back to life in just a very short period of time. Think of it. From November 5th, the — the progress that’s been made has been amazing. The Nasdaq is up nearly 10 percent in just a few months, and that’s a lot. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is up 2,200 points. And Bitcoin has set multiple all-time record highs, because everyone knows that I’m committed to making America the crypto capital. We want to stay — we want to stay at the forefront of everything, and one of them is crypto. And Miami seems to be the center of the action, come to think of it, and maybe it’ll stay there. Business optimism skyrocketed 42 points — think of that — in a single month. The most in history, by far. That’s the biggest increase in history by not even close. The ISM index of manufacturing activity surged into positive territory for the first time in many years. Amazing. And it was just announced — this is an interesting one. I didn’t realize it was that bad for so long. But it was just announced by one of the nation’s most historically accurate and respected pollsters, Rasmussen, that the number of Americans who believe our country is on the right track now exceeds those who think it’s heading in the wrong direction for the first time in 20 years. Can you believe you that? Twenty years. (Applause.) And this is really a seismic 27-point swing from just before the election. That’s — nobody has ever seen anything like that one, Yasir. I want to tell you. That’s a big one. (Laughter.) The best and most successful business leaders on Earth are now racing to invest in the United States. Since November, DAMAC has announced plans to invest $40 billion in the U.S., creating at least 10,000 jobs. SoftBank has announced investments of between $100- and $200 billion, creating at least 100,000 American jobs. Oracle and OpenAI and SoftBank are now collectively committing $500 billion to keep the United States on the cutting edge of artificial intelligence. And so many more — I mean, so many companies, they want to come to the White House and have a little news conference all the time. I said, “Why don’t you just announce it?” But they want to come, and I’ll do that. I don’t mind doing that. I say anytime they want to go $10 billion or more, I’m — I’m there. (Laughter and applause.) Ten billion or more. But on his recent visit to the White House, the prime minister of Japan announced he anticipates Japanese investment in the United States of well over a trillion dollars, and we’re working on an Alaska pipeline already, which is the closest point to Asia. And as you know, the ANWR, which we’ve started, Ronald Reagan couldn’t get it approved. Nobody could get it approved for so many years. Couldn’t get it approved. I got it approved. Actually, I got it approved twice. I got it approved, and Biden ended it. That was a shocker. But we just got it approved again. And we’re going to be — (applause) — it’s — it’s probably the largest deposit maybe anywhere in the world, just by itself. It’s — they say of similar size to Saudi Arabia, so we hope that’s correct. But all of this is only happening because of the world-changing results of the 2024 election. We won the House. We won the Senate, the White House, and the Electoral College and the popular vote in a landslide. We also won all seven swing states, and all 50 states shifted in the Republican direction for the first time ever. So, every state — every single state of the 50 states shifted Republican. That’s never happened before. Either way, it’s never happened. And 85 percent of counties voted for Trump. Think of that. So, you have 2,600 counties versus 525. Two thousand six hundred, think of that. That’s why when you look at the election map, after it was all done — the certified map — the whole thing was red — 2,600 versus 500. It’s a big, big dif- — nobody’s seen anything like it, actually. So, as a result of this very historic victory, investors from all over the planet, once again, have confidence in America’s future and respect for America’s leaders, and it’s about time we get a little respect. The last administration was the worst and most incompetent in the history of our country, but we are moving quickly to fix every single disaster Joe Biden created and make America stronger and more prosperous than ever before. (Applause.) Our first and most urgent mission is to remove the criminals that Biden allowed into our country with the ridiculous and very dangerous open-borders policy. They came from all over the world. They came from prisons and jails. They came from mental institutions and insane asylums. They were gang members. They were drug lords. They came from all over, and they were allowed to come into our country. And we’re getting them out in record levels, just like they came in in record levels. I want to thank Tom Homan and Kristi, who is just doing — she’s doing a fantastic job — governor of South Dakota — and Tom Homan, you know, and they are doing a fantastic job. (Applause.) And the results are incredible. And every country is taking them back. They’re sending their criminals to us, and they’re all taking them back. We had a little problem with a couple of them. That ended very quickly. And because some said, “We don’t really want MS-13 back in our country.” But I said, “Congratulations, you’re taking them back,” and they take them back. And, by the way, Europe and other places ought to start also doing that. They better start looking at immigration, because it’s really hurting Europe very, very badly. And they better get smart and they better get tough before it’s too late. We’re also working to end the highest inflation in our country’s history, all caused because they played with our energy policy and wasted money on the Green New Scam and other things such as that, and they wasted monies at — at never-seen-before levels. If Joe Biden had simply held federal spending at the pre-pandemic levels we had in 2019, we — right now, we would have virtually no inflation. We’re trying to balance the budget immediately, and because of the tariff income, which is really go- — it’s — it’s already turned out to be amazing, actually. It’s really meant more for bringing countries and companies into our country, but it’s — the numbers are rather staggering, because we’re the big piggy bank that everybody wants to be. And they can play games, and they can say, “Well, there’ll be retribution and, you know, equal this and that,” but they can’t be equal. But we want to keep it so that we’re the big piggy bank. And if we had years like we did the last four years, that wouldn’t have lasted too long. So, we’re not promising it, but you know, all of these things could happen. We — we hope to balance our budget. So, I don’t want to promise it, because if I do and we come about $10 short, the fake news media back there would say, “We have breaking news. He did not make it. He did not make it.” But we’ll get it done very soon. It might not be this year, but it could be this year. Actually, we have a chance at getting it even this year, which people would be shocked at, because they were talking about 10 years, 15 years, 20 years from now. When I took office last month, we inherited the consequences of inflation that was more than four times what it was when I left four years ago. Think of that, I left, it was at 1.4 percent. And the annual government spending over $1.5 trillion more than projected in 2020 alone — $1.5 trillion. But under the Trump administration, all of that is changing faster and more dramatically than anyone ever thought possible. They didn’t think it was possible to do what we’ve done in just a very short period of time. We’ve accomplished more in four weeks than most administrations accomplish in four years. On my first day in office, I imposed an immediate federal hiring freeze, a federal regulation freeze, and a foreign aid freeze. I signed an order creating the Department of Government Efficiency and put a man named Elon Musk in charge. Thank you, Elon, for doing it. (Applause.) Thank you very much. And he’s doing a great job. I wish you could have seen him last night. It’s really — you know, he’s a very committed person. He’s a very serious person. And he’s a very high-IQ people. You know, I like high-IQ people. Not all have to be, but, you know, it’d be nice to have some people up there that — (laughter) — he’s a seriously high-IQ individual. Now, he’s got his faults also, I will tell you that — (laughter) — but not too many of them. Which is now really waging war on government waste, fraud, and abuse, and they’re curbing inflation and saving taxpayers billions and billions of dollars every single day. And there’s even under consideration a new concept where we give 20 percent of the DOGE savings to American citizens and 20 percent goes to paying down debt, because the numbers are incredible, Elon. So many billions of dollars — it’s billions — hundreds of billions, and we’re thinking about giving 20 percent back to the American citizens and 20 percent down to pay back debt — and pay down debt, which is — if you look at value, if it were a real estate balance sheet, the debt is tiny, but we still — we still want to pay it down. Doesn’t matter. We don’t look at it as a piece of real estate. It’s America. We’re going to get it down through intelligence, hard work, and, as Elon said, a word called “caring.” You have to have — you have to care. By doing this, Americans will tell us where there is waste. They’ll be reporting it themselves. They participate in the process of saving money. So many of the men and women in this room, as an example, they pay tremendous amounts of taxes. And here are just a few examples of where your money was going before I came along. These are just some of the — just taken at random. Oh, there are much worse examples than this. I was just looking at them before the speech, and I can tell you there were much worse. And there are some that are horrible, but I don’t want to really say them, because they’re very, very embarrassing to people — very, very embarrassing. And they’re really something, but you’ll be seeing it and you will be reading about it. But just some taking at random: $2 million for sex change operations in Guatemala. $20 million for “Sesame Street” performances in Iraq. Twenty million, that’s a lot of money. (Laughter.) You know, I know what it costs to do those things. You get a cast over for $50,000, give them a couple of bucks tip. That’s it. Not $20 million. (Laughter.) Twenty million, that’s “Gone With the Wind” on steroids. (Laughter.) $101 million for 29 diversity, equity, and inclusion contracts at the Department of Education. Wow. And we’ve also canceled — we’ve canceled all of these, saved all of this money. And, again, this is just a small sample. This could go on. I could read them all day. $520 million for a consultant — I want to know who is that consultant — (laughter) — to do ESG — that’s environmental, social, and governance — investments in Africa. $25 million to promote biodiversity conservation and licit livelihoods by developing socially responsible behavior in Colombia. $40 million to improve the social and economic inclusion of sedentary migrants. Nobody knows what that even means. None of this stuff. Nobody. (Laughter.) Everyone is trying to figure out, “What the hell does it all mean?” $42 million for social and behavior changes in Uganda. Forty million is a lot of newspaper ads in Uganda. (Laughter.) $70 million for research of evidence-based solutions for development challenges. $10 million for Mozambique medical male circumcision. (Laughter.) What does that — what does that mean? $2.3 million dollars for strengthening independent voices in Cambodia. (Laughter.) $14 million for improving public procurement in Serbia. $486 million to the Consortium for Elections and Political Process Strengthening, including $22 million for inclusion — inclusive and participatory political process in Moldova and $21 million for voter turnout in India. What do we need to spend $21 million for voter turnout in India? Wow, $21 million. I guess they were trying to get somebody else elected. Wow, we ought to tell the Indian government, because when we hear that Russia spent about two dollars in our country, it was a big deal. Right? (Laughter.) They took — they took some Internet ads for $2,000. This is a total breakthrough: twenty-one million dollars for India elections. $29 million to strengthen the political landscape in Bangladesh. $20 million for fiscal federalism, and $19 million in addition to the $21 million, for biodiversity conversion [conservation] in Nepal. $1.5 million for voter confidence in Liberia. We need voter confidence too, when you read this list. (Laughter.) $14 million for social cohesion in Mali. $2.5 million for inclusive democracies in South Africa. $47 million for improving learning outcomes in Asia. Asia is doing very well. We don’t need to give them money. (Laughter.) And in another program, $50 million, plus another $50 million, for condoms for Hamas. You know about that? (Laughter.) A hundred million dollars for condoms. Condoms. Does everybody know what a condom is? (Laughter.) For Hamas — $100 million. And these are just some. I could read this list all day long. I just don’t want to bore you. But these are just some, and not nearly as bad as others. And some are just — I just don’t want to say them because they’re too — they’re too incenduary [incendiary]. We’re also finding tremendous abuse, waste, and fraud in Social Security. Social Security is — what’s happening there is going to be one of the great potential scandals in history. On the program, there are over 4.7 million Social Security numbers from people from 100 years old to 109. Think of that. Now, over 100, there aren’t a lot of people that make it. Hopefully most of the people in this room will make it, but historically, you don’t have thousands and thousands of people. But listen to this: 3.6 million people are on Social Security rolls from the age of 110 years old to 119. Do you think there are really that many? (Laughter.) Those people are seriously old. (Laughter.) But it gets worse. 3.47 million — 3.47 million people are on Social Security from the age of 120 years old to 129 years old. 3.9 million people are on the age of Social Security from 130 years old to 139 years old. Now the all-time record, I heard, is a woman who was a hundred — she was 127 years old. That’s the record. A woman from a certain country where they have actually people that live pretty long, actually. And she was 127 years old. That’s pretty old, but we’re topping her by millions — millions of people. (Laughter.) 3.5 million people from the age 140 to 149 years old. 1.3 million people are on Social Security from the age 150 to 159. And over 130,000 people are on Social Security over the age of 160 years old — okay? — including 1,039 people — think of it — over 1,000 people — between the ages of 220 to 229. (Laughter.) And one person between the age of 240 to 249. And the record-topper: There is one person on Social Security who is 360 years old — (laughter) — which is approximately 110 years older than our country. (Laughter and applause.) So, what we’re trying to find out and what we will find out is are people being paid from all of these. You know, is somebody pocketing $10,000 here, $10,000 there? What’s going on? So, we’ll find that out pretty easily because we have a lot of computer geniuses. I said to Elon, “Who are these people that are doing this, the DOGE people?” I said, “Who are they? Where do they come from?” He said, “Well, number one, they love our country, and, number two, they’re really genius at computers.” So, nobody is going to fool them. When they go in, they see some bureaucrat that’s scamming the country, and they try and talk about, you know, certain computer language, these people say, “No, it doesn’t work that way.” These are people that are — have a natural ability as — as, you know, brilliant computer people. It was very interesting when he told me that. I said, “That’s what you need today.” But all of these scams have now been terminated. In addition, over the past month, we have effectively eliminated the U.S. Agency for International Development, which was funding much of this lunacy. We virtually shut down the out-of-control CFPB, escorting radical-left bureaucrats out of the building and locking the doors behind them. What they were doing was so terrible. Where they were spending the money was so terrible. What we haven’t looked at yet but will be is does the money come back to them, because nobody can be stupid like that. And they’re not stupid. They’re smart, actually. And, you know, why are doing that? Does money come back to them? So, we’ll figure that out pretty easily, I think, and quickly. But I’ve ended all of the so-called diversity, equity, and inclusion programs across the entire federal government and private sector and notified every single government DEI officer that their jobs have been deleted. They’re all deleted. And it’s interesting, even these country — these companies that have tremendous — the amounts of money — a number of them just announced — Walmart, if you can believe it, they just announced that they’re stopping. And, you know, these companies are writing off, like, $220 million. How can you spend that much money no matter what you’re doing? If you’re teaching something, you’re going to have an instructor, you’re going to talk, you’re going to give them a book, “Please read the book.” You know, and then you find they spent $225 million on that. What’s going on? And we were going in the wrong way, and our military was really — although, I tell you, you know, we — we defeated ISIS with our military in three weeks. General “Razin” Caine was — he’s some general. He’s a real general, not a television general. And three weeks — ISIS. And I — I asked him, and I saw some of his people that were so great, the soldiers. We have the greatest military in the world, but we don’t have the greatest top, top leadership. That’s why Afghanistan was such a horrible situation and so embarrassing and so many other things. But when we want to, with proper leadership, there’s nobody even close to us. We have the best equipment in the world. We make the best equipment in the world. But we have the best military, but, you know, we never fight to win. We fight to just keep it going forever. And when we fight to win, there’s nobody that can even come close to us. But I was talking to General Dan Caine, and we call him “Razin” Caine. And I was told it would take about four years to defeat ISIS, and he did it in three weeks. I said to him, “What do you think, General? How long will it take?” “Sir, I think we should do it in less than four weeks. You’re going to have time leftover.” And he did. He did that. And we were told by the television generals it would take four years. So, we did it. That’s when I went to Iraq. I flew to Iraq and — late at night — the dark of night, all the windows closed, all the lights off in the plane, in Air Force One. And we flew in, and it was pretty amazing. I’ll tell you, we were landing, and there were no lights. No lights on the plane. “Sir, we have to turn off all lights.” I said, “You mean we spend $9 trillion, and we have to fly in on Air Force One with the lights off?” And I went up to the pilot and said hello. And, by the way, these guys are like central casting. These are the best-looking human beings. Everybody is, like, perfect. (Laughter.) The most handsome people, the best-looking people you’ve ever seen, with the flattops and the whole thing. And I was a little concerned because the lights are off, and everything is off, and even the lights in where he was were down very dim — very, very dim with all of the lights on the fancy dashboards of the plane of Air Force One. We’re getting a new Air Force One if they can ever finish the damn thing. (Laughter.) We’re getting two of them, actually. But we may have to go a different route because it’s taking them a long time. We’re going to get military that’s going to start building. We’re going to get people to start building properly again in our country, because they don’t build properly. (Applause.) This was Boeing. But we’re — we’re up there, and I’m looking at these people. And, again, cent- — I say they look like Tom Cruise but better — (laughter) — stronger, tougher. And I like Tom Cruise, but these are better. And I said — I said, “Are we okay, Captain?” “Yes, sir, we’re fine.” But I’m looking out. I don’t see any lights, and we’re landing. And I’m — you know, I’m used to that. I like to sit with the pilots a lot, and I respect the pilots greatly. And we’re up there, and, you know, we have the computer — I call it the computer voice, where it goes 1,000, 900, 800. That’s feet — your feet above ground. So, that means you’re very low. And I’m looking out, and my eyes are pretty good, and I don’t see any lights. And the computer goes out. It sounds like a — an intelligent individual. It goes, “1,000.” We’re a thousand feet up. That’s very — it’s a 10-story building. This is a big, big plane. And then it goes, “900, 800, 700.” I say, “Captain.” (Clears throat.) (Laughter.) “Captain, we don’t see any lights.” I said, “Is everything” — “Yes, sir. Everything is fine, sir. We’ll be landing in three minutes.” And then it goes, like, “600, 500.” “Captain, are we okay?” (Laughter.) And then it goes, “400, 300, 200.” And I’m saying, “Man, there’s nothing out there.” (Laughter.) And then he goes boom. Perfect landing, right on this thing. There are no lights on the runway. There’s no n- — I don’t know how the hell they do it, but I’m sure as hell glad we had somebody that knows how to fly. (Laughter.) But they didn’t want to have any lights because they didn’t want the enemy — after spending, you know, years and trillions of dollars, we have to land with Air Force One with no lights on the runway. But they were incredible people. And then I got out of the plane, and I actually asked my people — you know, I said, “Excuse me, I was very brave sitting in that cockpit. Am I allowed to give myself the Congressional Medal of Honor?” (Laughter and applause.) And they said, “I don’t think so, sir.” I said, “Well, I felt I was extremely brave.” (Laughter.) But now here’s the problem with saying a story like that. When you kid, the press will say, “President Donald Trump wanted to give himself the Congressional Medal of Honor.” (Laughter.) Headlines, you know? Headlines all over the fake news. We call it the fake news, but we’re all wise to them. But it was something. And then I went down, and it was the same thing. I’m standing on the top, and I look down and there’s these handsome people. Everybody is like from a movie set. Good-looking guys. I get down the stairs, and “What’s your name?” “My name is Caine, sir.” “What’s your first name?” “They call me ‘Razin.’” I say, “Wait a minute. Your name is Razin Caine? I love you. I’ve been looking for you for five years. You are the grea-” — (laughter) — “This is what I want.” And there was a general next to him. There was a colonel. There was a drill sergeant, a master sergeant. They were all, like, people — I could make a movie right now. I’d have the best-looking people ever. And they were great. And then I went in, and “Sir, would you like to rest before the me-” — “No, I don’t want to rest. I don’t want to rest. I’ve been resting on the plane,” other than the last few moments, which were quite harrowing. (Laughter.) And I said, “I don’t want to rest.” He was thinking about Biden in advance, you know? Biden would have gone there; he would have rested for days. (Laughter.) They — and then they wouldn’t have had a meeting. He’d just go home. (Laughter.) No, I said, “I don’t want to rest. I don’t want to rest at all. I want to go.” So, we went into this, like, bunker, and we had a lot of very good, talented people. And that’s when I asked him. I said, “You know, I’m hearing it’s going to take a long time.” “No, that’s not right, sir. It’s not going to take a long time. We’ll have it done in four weeks.” I said, “How can you say four weeks when, in Washington, they said four years?” He said, “It’s four weeks, sir. We’ll hit them left. We’ll hit them right. We’ll hit them up the center. We’ll hit them underground and overground. We’ll knock the hell out of them, sir.” And I said, “Why is it that they said so long?” He said, “Because they wouldn’t let us fight, and we’re very far away. They want us to fight for this — from this airport. We’re very, very far away, sir, and they want us to fight here. We have many substations out” — sub-airports, they call them. Remote airports, where they build them in the sand. “And we have many of them, and I’d use them all, sir, and I would hit them so hard from so many different directions.” I said, “Well, what do you think?” He said, “You just let me know.” And I called him back, and I said, “Go ahead and do it. Are you sure you can do this, General?” He said, “Yes, sir.” And he did it, actually, in three weeks. It was over. A hundred percent of people that are really hurting the Middle East, hurting the world — and it was done. And we have — I’m telling you, we have the greatest military in the world, but you have to use the right people. But there’s nothing like what they were able to do in that case. And in other cases, wherever I gave them something, it was done incredibly well and very — and you know many of the instances, because it’s been well reported. But we’ve also required — and we ha- — so, we have a country that’s a great country. It’s a strong country, but it’s a country that’s just now gaining its respect back to the levels that it should — should have never lost. We were being laughed at by the entire world, but we’re not being laughed at anymore. But we’ve also required that all federal employees must once again show up to work. This is a new phenomenon, you know, since COVID. (Applause.) Show up to work in person like the rest of us. So, I mean, it doesn’t work when you don’t show up. And I see companies now are all going back to it. They’re all going back. It’s great. I want some of the big business leaders saying, “We absolutely are going back.” You — you j- — you can’t work at home. They’re not working. They’re playing tennis, they’re playing golf, or they have other jobs, but they’re not working — or they’re certainly not working hard. You could never build a company or a country with that. So, we have a very strong policy. And if they don’t show up to work, they — they get fired. And we’re trying to make our government smaller but much stronger. And we have tremendous bureaucracy, but it’s happening. A lot of people are leaving and, in some cases, leaving with pretty good offers. You know, you’re paid seven or eight months and go out, find a job. But some of these people had jobs. They were actually working for us, but they also had other jobs. And those people, in theory, they have problems. I don’t know if we’re going to do anything about that. So, we have other things to do, but they were working other jobs instead of working for us. So, they were staying home working, but they were working other jobs, getting paid a lot of money, perhaps. We offered deferred resignation buyouts to all federal workers, resulting in more than 75,000 bureaucrats voluntarily surrendering their taxpayer-funded jobs. A lot of them are leaving because they don’t want to be caught having the second job, some are leaving because they didn’t want to be in government any longer, and — and some are leaving because they didn’t want to show up to work. They wanted to work outside of an office, and that’s never going to work for anybody, including companies. The companies ought to get smart. You watch these companies where they do that: They start going bad. Nobody knows — “what’s wrong with this company?” Well, try getting the people back into the office where they can be cohesive and together. In less than a single month, the Department of Government Efficiency has already saved over 55- — this is just a short period of time — $55 billion, and we’re just getting started. That’s nothing compared to the numbers that you’re talking about, right? (Applause.) We’re ending trillions of dollars in waste, and it’ll mean much lower inflation; lower interest rates; lower payments on mortgages, credit cards, car loans; and much higher stock markets. I think the stock market is going to be great. In other words, we will rapidly grow our economy by dramatically shrinking the federal government, and we have to do it. I’m also taking fast action to end the radical left’s nation-wrecking crusade against oil and natural gas. Over the past four years, the Biden administration cut the number of new oil leases and gas leases by 95 percent. They slowed new pipeline. I mean, look at the — any one. Dakota Access, they wanted that one knocked out. The Keystone Pipeline, they wanted that one knocked out. They ended the Keystone. We got the Dakota Access done, but it wasn’t easy after they tried to stop it. They slowed new oil and gas pipeline construction to virtually a halt. They shut down 38 percent of active oil and gas rigs in the United States. But they love the wind turbines. They go round and round and round. And if the wind doesn’t blow, they got problems. They kill all the birds. They ruin the sight lines. They ruin the plains and the beautiful areas of our country, including the oceans, the lakes. They closed more than 50 power plants, all causing energy prices to skyrocket. You saw that happen. That’s what caused the inflation. It’s pretty easy. These policies were so destructive that despite draining nearly 40 percent of U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve meant for emergencies — it was meant for emergencies. It wasn’t meant for getting the price of gasoline down so that you can win an election. Didn’t work for winning the election. Actually, there’s so many people that are driving that it’s a very small number. It just had a very small effect. But in the meantime, it takes it down. It’s at — now it’s at the lo- — we’ll fill it up fast, but it’s at the lowest level. When we made the transition, it was at the lowest level in history ever recorded. It’s the lowest level. Nobody’s ever seen it that way. They — they put it all out because they thought they could keep gasoline prices down a little bit. Just go past the election, and then after that, they didn’t care. And it didn’t work, because they didn’t get elected. I got elected. But the price of gasoline still rose over 35 percent and, in some cases, at some periods, it was 100 percent and 125 percent during certain periods of time. Under the Trump administration, we have implemented a very different plan. You probably heard of it. It’s called drill, baby, drill, and we’re doing a — (applause). The world runs on low-cost energy, and energy-producing nations like us have nothing to apologize for. We have more energy than any other nation in the world, and we’re going to use it. And we’re going to use it on AI plants. I was telling some of the people that came in that — you know, they’re very inter- — everybody’s talking about AI. I hope you’re right. You know, I don’t know. Who knows? (Laughter.) But, Elon, are they right? Are they right in going all i- — they are all in for AI. But the problem is, to do it, just in our country, you need twice the electricity just to open up and be the top of AI. You need twice the electricity that we have right now. In the entire country, if you take all of the electricity, you need more than twice. You need twice. You need double what we have right now just to fuel this new industry that’s growing. I was amazed when I heard that number. And they all said, “How can we do this?” Because, you know, in China and various other places, you can probably get it with the shake of a hand, but in our country, you can’t. But now you can, because we’ve declared — I’m declaring a national emergency in order to get fast approvals. And we’re going to have — if you build a plant, you’re able to build an electric-generating facility right next to your plant, so you’ll be making your own. You won’t have to count on utilities. You won’t have to count on an old grid that could fail, could get hit by something — bad things or good things — but you’re not going to have to — you’re not going to have to worry about grids. You’re not going to have — you’ll build your plant, and you’ll build your — your — essentially, you become a utility, in a way. You build your own electricity. If you want to build extra and put it out and get paid for that, you’re going to be able to do that. You could put it back into the grid, but you’re going to be able to build with your plant a generating facility. And we’re going to get you Lee Zeldin, head of the environment — head of Environmental — the Environmental group — various groups. And we’ve got them unified now, but we’re going to get you very fast approvals, and they’ll be approved so fast your head will spin. And we’re going to get that whole industry started, and we’re going to be the head of it. We’re leading right now. We have the greatest brain power. We’re leading right now, and I expect that we’re going to be leading by a lot. But we’re going to get you the energy very, very quickly. That would be the one thing that everybody was concerned, “How do we have that much electricity when Los Angeles has blackouts and brownouts right now, and there’s a lack of electricity?” But we’re going to get it at levels never seen before. I ended the ridiculous Green New Scam, halting tens of billions of dollars of wasteful deficit spending. And I withdrew the United States from the unfair, one-sided Paris Climate Accord. And I ended Joe Biden’s insane electric vehicle mandate, because it was just insane. I repealed the last — and, by the way, if you want to buy an electric car, that’s great. If you want to buy a gasoline-driven car or a hybrid, it’s great. Whatever the — whatever the thing happens to be. I heard hydrogen is hot. The problem is, when it’s not, you’re in deep trouble. Because when that sucker blows up, they don’t find the body. (Laughter.) So, that’s one that I said, “You know what? Let’s take a pass on that one.” They said it’s good, but when it’s bad, it’s really bad. You find the bodies on trees — on the side of a tree. (Laughter.) I said, “I think we’ll pass on that one. Right? We’re not going to want that one.” But you never know. Maybe someday it’ll be good. But it doesn’t sound like it’s off to a good start. I repealed the last administration’s very destructive natural gas export ban, and, last week, we approved our first new liquefied natural gas export license, and we have literally hundreds of people that want to export. I recently met with the Japanese prime minister, Ishiba, to discuss large increases in American oil and gas exports. They want it so badly. They said, “We went to the Biden administration, and they wouldn’t sell it. They wouldn’t sell it.” Nobody knows why. Biden didn’t know why either. They asked him. “I don’t know.” (Laughter.) “He wanted — they did? Oh, I didn’t know that.” But we’re going to sell it. And the new project in Alaska is going to feed all of Asia. We’re going to take care of all of Asia. We have so much oil and gas, like very few people — like very few countries have — like, really, actually, no country has. I also met with Prime Minister Modi of India, who wants to greatly expand India’s purchase of American energy. And my administration has also launched the most aggressive deregulation program of any nation in history. Under my executive order, for every 1 new regulation added, 10 old regulations have to be eliminated. (Applause.) And, you know, in our first term, which was actually an incredible success — we had the greatest economy in history until COVID, and even after that, we did great. The stock market was higher. If you think of it, it was higher after the fact — after we went through that whole thing, it was higher than it was just prior to COVID coming in, which is a pretty amazing thing. But we did a great job on that, but it was a terrible thing for the world. The whole world suffered. It suffered terribly, including China, including other countries. It just was a terrible period of time. But despite that, we did well. But we had the greatest economy in the history of our country, and I think this time we’re going to do even better. We had — we were artificially hurt by COVID. We had to focus on that instead of focusing on — but just prior to COVID coming in, there’s never been anything like what we did, what we achieved. And even after, we did very well con- — and especially considering what all of us had to do with COVID. Some nations were hit so badly, it was — it was just unbelievable what happened to them. As part of our effort, I’ve signed executive orders to keep the United States at the forefront of artificial intelligence and to end Joe Biden’s war on Bitcoin and crypto. We ended that war totally. That war is over. They were very hostile toward them until the very end, just because there are so many people on Bitcoin and crypto that — just before the end, the SEC came out, and they were being very nice. I was so nice to people, because so many people were being indicted for no reason whatsoever — very political group of people. That’s all they did was they liked indicting people. But they were being indicted, and many of those indictments were dropped just before the election because they said, “Wait a minute. There’s 100 million, 125 million people using this,” and they didn’t want to have, you know, all these people being — voting against. But by the time they did that, it was too late. We had that vote entirely, I think. I think anybody would — smart that believed in that, and there were a lot of people believing it — anybody that was smart voted for Trump. And they pulled the indictments. And I see people that were indicted. I said, “I saved your life. I saved your life.” Because if they thought that — they actually thought that I was doing — they said, “Why is Trump doing it? Is he doing it for political reasons?” I don’t do anything for political reasons. I do what’s right. I do — I want to be on the forefront of every industry. (Applause.) So, I’ll be working with the Republican Congress to pass the largest tax cuts in American history. And that includes, obviously — (applause) — yeah. That includes we have to extend the Trump tax cuts, which were, until now, the largest. We’re going to dramatically cut taxes for families and for workers and for companies, including no tax on tips and hopefully no tax on Social Security and no tax on overtime. And that overtime one is a sleeper, because I think a lot of people are going to be spurred on to do a lot of extra work. When they hear that, it’s — a lot of companies really like it and a lot of people really like it. The new Trump tax cuts will also include 100 percent expensing for new factory construction in the United States and anything else that you’re going to buy with capital. If you buy something — if you buy something that is going to be good for our country, we’re going to let you expense it — one-year expense. (Applause.) And I did that the first time, and everybody was saying, “Can you go back to that?” Now you still get, I guess, 40 percent or whatever, but it, you know, pares down. But we’re going to bring that right up to the — to the top level. I think that had a lot to do with the success that I had during my first term. And we’ll substantially cut taxes for all domestic producers of oil and gas and just about everything else that they produce. In my first term, I brought the business tax down from around 40 percent to 21 percent, which everybody said was an impossible thing to do. I cut it from 40 or — it actually — with state and city, it was much higher than 40, but I got it down to 21 percent. And now I’m bringing it down to a goal of 15 percent, but only if you make your product in America. In other words, you’re going to be at 21 percent, but if you make your product in America, you’re going to go from 21 to 15. If you don’t, you’re going to pay 21 percent, which is still lower than anything. (Applause.) So, guys like Elon are going to come and make his great cars in the United States. There — a lot of — a lot of people will. A lot of people are calling. A lot of car companies are calling. They called me — three of them. Three of the majors, they called, and they said, “We’re looking all over the place. We want to be there.” I’m going to be announcing tariffs on cars and semiconductors and chips and pharmaceuticals — drugs and pharmaceuticals and lumber, probably, and some other things over the next month or sooner, and it’s going to have a big impact on America. We’re bringing our businesses back. If they don’t make their product in America, then they — very simply, they have to pay a tariff. But if they do make their product in America, they ha- — they don’t have to pay any tariff, which will bring — it’s all going to bring trillions of dollars into our Treasury, or it’s going to mean that there won’t be any taxes because we won’t have a fair base. If they don’t have it, we don’t have it. If they don’t pay — if they don’t charge us, we don’t charge them. It’s pretty simple. The Republican Party is, once again, the party of common sense. We’re a party of common sense. We want strong borders. We don’t want men playing in women’s sports. We don’t want to have transgender for everybody. We’re the party of common sense. That’s how we won the election in such a big manner. We’ll no longer allow other countries to ransack and plunder our nation. That’s why I’ve announced that we will soon begin imposing reciprocal tariffs on any country that engages in unfair and unequal trading practices. If they tariff us, as I said, we will tariff them at the exact same rate. So, if a certain country — because some of these countries, even countries that I’ve already mentioned, are extremely aggressive with tariffs. Nobody knows that. The European Union, they have a VAT tax that’s devastating. It’s very tough for people on the outside. Hard to sell cars. Really impossible to sell them, because they also have nonmonetary tariffs that are very, very tough. But if you take a look at that, it’s a very unfair situation. And the VAT tax is similar to the tariff. Around the world, I’m moving quickly to end wars, settle conflicts, and restore the planet to peace. I want peace, and I don’t want to see these — everybody being killed. And you take a look at the death in the Middle East and the death that’s taking place between Russia and Ukraine that’s been going on, and we’re going to end it. There’s no profit for anyone in having World War III, and you’re not so far away from it. I’ll tell you right now, you’re not so far away. If we would have had this administration for another year, you would have been in World War III, and now it’s not going to happen. In the Middle East, I’ve restored my policy of maximum pressure on Iran, designed to — to bring peace. (Applause.) And we’ve designated the Houthis a terrorist organization. They’re, you know, destroying shipping lanes all over the place. They’re making it very hard for people to get their product delivered. They’re making it very difficult. But we’ll take care of that situation. And we’ve secured a ceasefire in Gaza, and we’re bringing in the hostages, and we’re bringing them home to their families. Some of them are in pretty bad shape, I have to tell you. To end the horrible war in Ukraine, I have spoken with President Putin and President Zelenskyy, and our teams began negotiations this week in Saudi Arabia. I want to thank Saudi Arabia for that. That was so great. (Applause.) Yeah. And I want to thank, in particular — I mean, we have so many of the people — Yasir, Mohammed, all the people — but — but, in particular, we have to thank Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for hosting these historic talks — (applause) — and talks that went very, very well. Steve was there — Steve Witkoff was there, and Michael was there — Michael Waltz — and others. And they really went well. It’s a big — it’s a big step. We’ve got to get that war over with. You have to see the people that are dying. I look at the pictures, the — the satellite pictures of the field. It’s a level field, and it looks like a modern-day version of Gettysburg, and you know what that means. It is just carnage. It’s horrible. And, you know, it’s not American soldiers. It’s not even soldiers from the Middle East, in the case of Ukraine-Russia, but it’s people. It’s young people from Russia and Ukraine, mostly, that are just being decimated. It’s flat fields, and a bullet goes, and a bullet only stops when it hits somebody. And the level of people being killed in that battle — soldiers, young soldiers — in some cases, old soldiers, because they’re running out of people; they’re running out of soldiers, one case. But think of it, a modestly successful comedian, President Zelenskyy, talked the United States of America into spending $350 billion to go into a war that basically couldn’t be won, that never had to start, and never would have started if I was president — not even a chance. And it didn’t start for four years. Never would have started. But a war that he, without the U.S. and Trump, will never be able to settle. They’ll never settle that war without our involvement. That’s why they did such a great job this weekend. That’s why Saudi Arabia did such a great job this weekend in hosting. The United States has spent $200 billion more than Europe, and Europe’s money is guaranteed. They get their money back. It’s a form of a loan. Nobody knows that. I know that. I said, “Why isn’t somebody saying, you know, we do it the same way?” And we spent much more money. We have to equalize. But while the United States gets nothing back — so, they get their money back. It’s a loan. We just give our money. And we had a deal based on rare earth and things, but they broke that deal. But we — they broke it two days ago. We had a deal, because I said, “We’re spending $350 billion, and Europe gets their money back in the form of a loan and we don’t. We’re just giving the money hand over fist.” That’s the Biden administration for you. But they’re no longer dealing with the same United States as they were dealing with a few months ago. Why didn’t crooked Joe Biden demand equalization? And that this war is far more important to Europe than it is to us, and that there’s a very big, beautiful ocean as separation. This is — you know, we’re helping Europe. We’re trying to help Europe. On top of this, Zelenskyy admits that half of the money that we sent them is missing. They don’t know where the money is. He said, “Well, we don’t know where half of it is.” That’s great. Wonderful. (Laughter.) He refuses to have elections. He’s low in the real Ukrainian polls. I mean, how can you be high with every city is being demolished? It’s hard to be high. Somebody said, “Oh, no, his polls are good.” Give me a break. (Laughter.) Every city is being demolished. They look like a demolition site, every single one of them. And the only thing he was really good at was playing Joe Biden like a fiddle. He played him like a fiddle. That’s an expression we use, Yasir, to say that he’s pretty easy. Pretty easy. (Laughter.) A dictator without elections, Zelenskyy better move fast or he’s not going to have a country left. Got to move. Got to move fast, because that war is going in the wrong direction. In the meantime, we’re successfully negotiating an end to the war with Russia — something all admit that only Trump is going to be able to do and the Trump administration. We’re going to be able to do it. I think Putin even admitted that. Biden never tried. Europe has failed to bring peace. And Zelenskyy probably wants to — maybe he wants to keep the gravy train going. I don’t know what’s the problem, but he hasn’t been able to — he’s very upset that he wasn’t invited — he could have come if he wanted to — but that he wasn’t invited to Saudi Arabia. But he’s been working for three years. There’s never been even meetings or phone calls to stop this war. It’s a horrible thing. I figure Russia has lost 900,000 soldiers. I think that Ukraine has lost probably 700,000, and it’s a terrible thing. You’ll see body parts — bodies and body parts all over the field. All over. We see them through — very accurately through satellites. I love Ukraine, but Zelenskyy has done a terrible job. His country is shattered, and millions and millions of people have unnecessarily died. And you can’t bring a war to an end if you don’t talk to both sides. You got to talk. They haven’t been talking for three years. So, we hope to see a ceasefire soon and to reestablish stability in Europe and the Middle East. (Applause.) But as I — thank you very much. And as I’ve said before, it’s my hope that my greatest legacy will be as a peacemaker and a unifier. That would be a great legacy. (Applause.) So, in conclusion, the golden age of America is upon us, and I’m inviting everyone here today and every citizen across our land to take part in the most extraordinary period of peace, prosperity, growth, innovation, wealth creation, and expansion the world has ever seen. We’re on our way. I mean, everyone is talking about us. Three weeks. We’re in there for a couple of days more than three weeks, and everyone is talking about it. You have to see the crowds of people outside. It’s pretty amazing what’s happening. We’re on the verge of soaring markets, surging incomes, booming production, groundbreaking technologies, thrilling discoveries, and a quantum leap in the quality of life. Absolutely, a quantum leap. One day very soon, our country will have the greatest economy in the history of the world, because we once again have a president who puts America first. And we put America first, and your country should put your country first, but in the end, we want America first. And when it’s all beautiful, which it’s going to be pretty soon, we want to help other countries and you want to help other countries. But, you know, I tell your leaders — and some of the leaders are in this room right now — you got to put your country first. Whether it’s Saudi Arabia, whether it’s something else, you’re going to put your country first, but we’re going to have plenty left over to help others also. As long as you invest in America, build in America, and hire in America, that means that I’m fighting for you. I am fighting very hard for you. Together, we’re going to make the United States of America bigger, better, bolder, richer, and greater than ever before. It’s going to be stronger than ever before. We’re going to be a peacemaker and a peacekeeper. We’re going to stop people from these stupid, never-ending wars. We’re not going to partake in them ourselves, but we’ll be stronger and more powerful than anybody by far. And if it ever came to war, there is nobody that will be able to come close to us, but we don’t think that’s going to ever happen. So, I want to thank you all very much. It’s a great honor to be here. And I think somebody said they’re going to ask questions, and I didn’t say, “Gee, what are the questions,” like Biden does. I say, “Just ask. It doesn’t matter.” You ask a question, and I give an answer. So, I think, Richard, you’re going to come up and you’re going to give me some questions. Thank you very much. (Applause.) MR. ATTIAS: Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Please, a round of applause for the president of United States of America. Thank you. (Applause.) THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. MR. ATTIAS: Mr. President, thank you for accepting to take a few questions. Twenty years ago, I don’t know if you will remember, we were under the same roof in Orlando, and you were delivering an amazing speech in front of 3,000 sales rep, giving them the best advice to be successful. So, what is the best piece of advice that you have ever received? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I think it was watching my father. You know, my father was a very hard worker, and he just worked hard and he was very smart. He had good genetics. His brother was the longest-serving professor in the history of MIT, Dr. John Trump. And my father was every bit as smart, but my father was — had to work. He was older, and he put his brother through school. In fact, he once said, “Boy, I put him through so much school.” He had three different degrees, and they asked him to stay on at MIT. But my father was the same ilk. And I noticed that my father was a happy man, and what he did is he worked. He just worked all the time. He worked, worked, worked, and he loved it. And, really, I think the best piece of advice I got from that is you have to love what you do, and if you love what you do, you’re going to have a happy life. If you don’t — I mean, I see so many people, they’re in businesses that they don’t want to be in. They’re in businesses that, you know, they’re bored in or they’re not good at, they don’t have a natural ability at it. There is such a thing as natural ability, whether it’s sports or acting or anything else. I mean, some people have an ability for something. Try and find that ability. But you have to love what you do. If you love what you do, you’re going to be — at least you have a good chance of being successful. MR. ATTIAS: Mr. President, it’s almost time for — (applause) — for an early dinner. So, if you are throwing a dinner party, and you can invite three fascinating guests, living or dead, who would you bring? THE PRESIDENT: Well, they’re all sitting right in the front row. (Laughter and applause.) Yasir, are you ready? Mohammed, are you ready? Steve Witkoff. And we have Mr. — the most important person, at least until the World Cup is over, is here. Gianni, stand up. He gave the United States the World Cup. (Applause.) Gianni, thank you very mu- — I didn’t know you were here. That’s very good. He’s the king of soccer. That’s not bad. And you’ve done a fantastic job. You know, but it’s very interesting, when I was president, I got the World Cup and I got all of the — you know, we have the 250 anniversary, so that fell in this administration. That’s a big deal: 250 years. But we have all of these things happening, and I also got the Olympics. And I was called by the mayor of Los Angeles, “Sir, would you call up the Olympic Committee because” — it was at that time — “President Obama will not take their phone call. And we’re going to get the Olympics in Los Angeles.” And, by the way, they’ve recommitted to Los Angeles at a level that — you know, I was very worried about that. And they’ve — the opposite. You know, somebody could have said, “Well, we’re going to do it someplace else until” — they have actually recommitted. They’re going to make it bigger and better than ever. So, I want to let you know that. (Applause.) But I got — I had the Olympics. So, I got the Olympics. I got the World Cup, and I said — and the 250, but that one I didn’t get. But it was there. It was in this term. And I ran an election, and we did fantastic in 2016. We did much better — millions and millions — tens of millions, but millions and millions of votes better. And bad things happened, and I didn’t get that one. And I said, “You know” — when I originally signed the Olympics, I said, “I won’t be able to even be president, and I got the Olympics,” because if I didn’t — when I spoke with the people — the organizing committee and the people in different parts of the world — they asked me to do it because the president wouldn’t do it. I was president-elect, and I gave them a talk. I couldn’t get them off the phone. They were starving for love. And the bottom line: They gave us the Olympics. And I said, “You know, isn’t it sad I won’t be president?” Then we had the election result, and now I’m president for the Olympics and for the World Cup. (Applause.) So, I’m very happy about that, Gianni. Thank you very much. Thank you, G- — (laughs) — I’ll be there. I promise, I’ll be there. MR. ATTIAS: And, by the way, Mr. President, backstage, you have a gift from Gianni. He gave us the first ball with your name — THE PRESIDENT: Ooh — MR. ATTIAS: — which will be played for the cup — World Cup in America. THE PRESIDENT: That’s great. It’s going to be great. Thank you, Gianni, very much. (Applause.) MR. ATTIAS: I doubt that any day you will take a sabbatical year, but if you could take a sabbatical year, Mr. President, what unconventional thing would you do? THE PRESIDENT: What was the word? MR. ATTIAS: Sabbatical. You don’t work for one year. THE PRESIDENT: Oh, sabbatical. I thought — thought you said “sabbath.” (Laughter.) That’s a big difference. It’s almost the opposite, when you think about it. Right? (Laughter.) I think what I’d do is — look, what I’m doing now is the most exciting job in the world. It’s a hard job, not an easy job. It’s a nasty job. It could be a lot easier with — you know, I — I think that the — the news media has to straighten themselves out, because people are getting it. You know, they — they’re losing tremendous popularity, and they’ve lost their prestige and they’ve lost their credibility. And I think it’s a very important thing, the news media, but I think they have to straighten themselves out, because the people are going around them. Now, they have so many different things with — like Elon with X, which was a big — a big thing. And we have Truth, which has been fantastic. And we have so many other things that you don’t really need traditional. But I — I will tell you that there is just nothing I could do to enjoy my life, whether it’s that or anything else that you’d ask, because this is the ultimate. I mean, I had to make a big decision, and it was a very risky decision, because if I would have lost, my life would have been a much different life. It would have been a very nasty life. They were going after me at levels that nobody has ever seen before — not Andrew Jackson, not Abraham Lincoln. You know, the historians say that the president that was treated the worst by far by the media and overall was Andrew Jackson. In fact, his wife died of heartbreak. They were treated really rough. And Abraham Lincoln was second, but he had a civil war. You know, you can understand that. But nobody was treated like me. Nobody. And I will tell you, you learn a lot about yourself. But there’s nothing I’d rather do. I had to make a decision: Do I do this? Because if I lost, it would have been very, very bad. It was dangerous, actually. Very dangerous in so many different ways. And I decided to do it. And I said, “I have to win, because if I don’t” — when I spoke to a friend of mine the other night, he said, “You know, if you lost, it would have been very” — it was actually Sean Hannity, just before we did the interview last night. He said, “Boy, if you would have lost, it would have — you would have had a tough life. You would have had a very tough life.” So, it was — there was a certain amount of courage involved in this decision to run. And it’s a great honor to win by this much — to win all seven swing states, the popular vote. Popular vote doesn’t get won that much by Republicans, for whatever reason. I think that’s changing, because, again, we’re the party of common sense and they’re the party of some real bad things. And I think they’ll change. I think they have to change. It would be wonderful. I’m going to be having lunch with some of the Democrats next week, and it would be wonderful if we could work together. I think working together would be great. But they have to change. You can’t get elected on the programs that they want, and that’s one of — that’s really what America wants to see. So, there’s nothing I’d rather do than what I’m doing right now. (Applause.) MR. ATTIAS: When we started this conference — Mr. President, when we started this conference, Yasir and I, His Royal Highness Crown Prince told us, “I want that to be the place where people will come to understand where to invest in terms of geographies and sector.” So, what is the best investment you have made in your personal growth, Mr. President? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I was involved in real estate from, you know, most of my life and was — you know, guys like Witkoff will tell you I was really good at it and I was successful at it — very successful at it. I’ve been involved in things prior to being president, but during the four years — during the last four years, you know, I followed sort of the trends, and I’ve made a lot of money with following some of these trends. And, you know, it’s — again, it’s something that you do. You — it’s — I really believe that some people have instinct. I think I’ve always had an instinct for making money. I make money. And I went into show business. I had one of the most successful shows on television. I wrote books, and they were all bestsellers. Virtually every book a bes- — was a big bestseller, some really big bestsellers. And so, I don’t know, it’s — whatever I do, I just want to make it successful. It’s very important to me. There are many ways to make money. You can be in many different fields, and a lot of them is being in the right country. You know, if you’re in a certain country — our country was actually getting very bad — a very dangerous place, actually. Bad things were happening. But if you’re in a certain country, you have a chance to do well. And no matter how good you are, if you were born into the wrong country, you’re not going to make money. Now, you can do other things. You can attain power, I guess. Maybe it’s the wrong kind of power, but it’s power. But being in the right country, where you have the right incentives and, you know, entrepreneurship, et cetera. And America has always been sort of at the top — or one of the top, but always pretty much at the top. But it was losing that — it was losing that position and, I think, losing it rapidly. This last administration — look, I don’t want to be — I wish I could say I — I wouldn’t have run if — if I thought Biden was doing a good job, if I thought they were — I wouldn’t have run, because, as I said, it was very dangerous to run in a lot of ways. In fact, my ear will show that when you look at it closely. My ear — I have that throbbing feeling every once in a while. But it was dangerous in a lot of different ways. But he was so bad that I had no choice but to do it. If I thought he was doing a great job, I wouldn’t have run, and I would be very happy. I actually wanted him to do a good job. I was saying, “Do this. Do that.” I’m telling them do things. They should have done what I said. And — but I would have been — I would have been very happy not to have run and, frankly, to have seen somebody do a good job. But our country was going to hell, and I really sort of had to run. MR. ATTIAS: If you were a historical ruler, would you prefer to rule during war or peace? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I — I’d — I want to be, again, a peacemaker and I want to keep us out of war. But sometimes, to do that, you have to have a very strong country. You have to have a very strong military. And as I said, we have a much stronger military than anyone would know. We have the best equipment, and I bought a lot of it. I rebuilt our military in the first four years. I rebuilt it. We gave a lot of it away to Afghanistan, to the Taliban, stupidly — but that’s a very small amount, relative. It was billions and billions, but it’s still a very small amount relatively to what we built. But I rebuilt — largely rebuilt our military. Now I’m going to have to do it again, because so much has been given away, so much has been treated so badly. And — but to keep peace, you really have to — I have a thing: strength through — and I mean it, you really have it. You have strength, and you need the strength, but it’s really peace through strength, because without the strength, it’s going to be very hard to have peace because you’re going to be taken over, bad things are going to happen. So, you really want to have peace through strength, and that’s where I’ve done it. Having strength, having power, in that sense, to protect yourself and your people is a very important thing. Hopefully, you don’t have to use that power. I will tell you, I was dealing with President Putin very successfully on denuclearization. We were talking about it very seriously, and then COVID came and lots of things came. And we had also talked to China about it. Now, Russia and us have the biggest nuclear by far. China is not close, but they will be close. In three or four years or five years, they’ll be equal. But we were going to talk to China, and I spoke to President Xi about it very successfully. I think we were going to denuclearize it. We were — had to get the smaller nuclear powers, of which there are four — three, maybe, but four probably — to do something. We would have been able to do that. But I was having very strong talks with President Putin about denuclearization. And, you know, if you’re president, you get presentations about what we’re building; what we’re having; the power of weapons; the power of many things besides weapons, per se. When I saw the power of nuclear weapons — and we can never let that happen. If that happens, the ball game will be — the world will be destroyed. The power is so enormous. You look at Hiroshima, you look at Nagasaki — multiply that times 500 times, and the world would be destroyed. So, you want somebody as your president or you want somebody as your leader that understands that. We just can’t let that happen. We can’t let other countries get nuclear weapons — not only Iran. Iran is a good example, and maybe the one that people think about, but we can’t let that happen. The power of weaponry today is so enormous that the world — the world would disintegrate. So, we can’t let it happen. MR. ATTIAS: Mr. President, if you had to describe United States of America in just three words, what would they be? THE PRESIDENT: In three words? MR. ATTIAS: Three words. THE PRESIDENT: Love, respect, and strength. (Applause.) That’s a tough question. That might be my best answer, Yasir. That’s — that reminds me of high school, that one. But that may have been the toughest question, actually. Do you think Joe Biden could have done that? I don’t think so. (Laughter.) I don’t think so. MR. ATTIAS: We’re almost at the end, Mr. President. But talking about United States of America, what is one cultural habit in the Uni- — in the U.S. business that the rest of the world could learn from? What is the best practice that (inaudible). THE PRESIDENT: Well, I think we love our families, but I think a lot of the world loves their families, you know? I was speaking to the head of Mexico, because I complain constantly about people pouring in. Now our border is the strongest border we’ve ever had. We’ve gone from the worst border ever in history to the strongest border. But I was speaking to the president of Mexico — a very wonderful woman, actually — and I said — we were talking about drugs — “You can’t let people come through your country and come into the country.” You know, I was not that nice, but they understood what I was saying. And she said something that really got me. She said — I said, “Are you a — you’re not a big drug-taking nation?” And she said, “No, we are not a consumer.” And I said, “A consumer. What a — you know, an interesting word. ‘We’re not a consumer nation. We’re not a consumer of drugs.’” I said, “What an interesting — and why — why is that?” He said — she said, “Well, we have very strong family values.” I said, “But we do too. We do too.” We have very strong — our families are devastated by what’s happening with fentanyl. And China will not be doing — we’re going to make a deal with China. We’re not letting that happen anymore. And I had a deal — by the way, before I left, I had a deal with President Xi where they were going to give the maximum penalty to anybody making fentanyl and sending it into the United States, and their maximum penalty is the death penalty. And it would have stopped. But when the election turned out to be a rigged election — but that’s okay — when election turned out to be — it was an election that shouldn’t have happened. All the — all the things that happened — I give you an example: We wouldn’t have had October 7th Israel attack. We wouldn’t have had Ukraine and Russia fighting. We wouldn’t have had inflation. We wouldn’t have had all of these things that, you know, happened. But in speaking with her — she said about family values — I said, “Well, you’re not really saying anything there, because we have great families too. We have great family values.” She said, “Plus, we advertise a lot.” I said, “Ooh. You mean you advertise about how bad drugs are?” “Yes, we do. We spend a lot of money on advertising.” And I said, “Unbelievable.” That was such a great conversation, because we’re going to spend hundreds of millions of dollars advertising how bad drugs are so that kids don’t use them — that they chew up your brain; they destroy your teeth, your skin, your everything. (Applause.) And I thanked her for that. You know, I — I make so many calls, and I never learn anything from anybody. I know everything, and I never learned anything from anybody. (Laughter.) And I spoke to this woman — as soon as she said it — she didn’t have to say exactly what — I said, “Exactly. What a great idea.” And I think we’re going to have a — and I saw pieces of it. We’re going to go in with $100 million and then another $100 million initially. But I saw some of the ads, and they are really violent. I said, “You have to make them strong.” Your skin practically comes off after a period of time. You lose your hearing. You — you lose your teeth. You lose — I mean, you — it — it is terrible, and we show this happening to people. And I think we’re going to — you know, we — we did very well with — we had blue-ribbon committees, headed up by the first lady of the United States and a lot of other people that — you know, they have no idea the viciousness of these cartels and these people. And they’re smarts. I mean, they’re very smart, tough people — making a fortune, by the way — an absolute fortune. But we got it down 18 percent, which was a record. But 18 percent is not great, when you think about it. I think we could get it down 50 or 55 or maybe even 60 percent with advertising. So, she really gave me something. I — I was going to call her and tell her that she did, but now I don’t have to call her because she’s going to be seeing this right now. (Laughter.) So, to the president of Mexico: Thank you very much. I appreciate it. But we’re going to do a great advertising campaign saying how bad it is, how drugs are so bad for you. (Applause.) MR. ATTIAS: My last question, Mr. President. You have mentioned briefly in your speech about the legacy. What would you like your legacy to be, if you can tell us more about it? THE PRESIDENT: That I came into a country that was great but is in trouble, and I made America great again, and I got it out of trouble. And people respect America now. And we were a country of peace, and we brought peace to the rest of the world. (Applause.) MR. ATTIAS: Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. (Applause.) THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. (Applause.) END 6:54 P.M. EST 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, and to ensure the readiness and effectiveness of our Armed Forces, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. The United States military has a clear mission: to protect the American people and our homeland as the world’s most lethal and effective fighting force. Success in this existential mission requires a singular focus on developing the requisite warrior ethos, and the pursuit of military excellence cannot be diluted to accommodate political agendas or other ideologies harmful to unit cohesion. Recently, however, the Armed Forces have been afflicted with radical gender ideology to appease activists unconcerned with the requirements of military service like physical and mental health, selflessness, and unit cohesion. Longstanding Department of Defense (DoD) policy (DoD Instruction (DoDI) 6130.03) provides that it is the policy of the DoD to ensure that service members are “[f]ree of medical conditions or physical defects that may reasonably be expected to require excessive time lost from duty for necessary treatment or hospitalization.” As a result, many mental and physical health conditions are incompatible with active duty, from conditions that require substantial medication or medical treatment to bipolar and related disorders, eating disorders, suicidality, and prior psychiatric hospitalization. Consistent with the military mission and longstanding DoD policy, expressing a false “gender identity” divergent from an individual’s sex cannot satisfy the rigorous standards necessary for military service. Beyond the hormonal and surgical medical interventions involved, adoption of a gender identity inconsistent with an individual’s sex conflicts with a soldier’s commitment to an honorable, truthful, and disciplined lifestyle, even in one’s personal life. A man’s assertion that he is a woman, and his requirement that others honor this falsehood, is not consistent with the humility and selflessness required of a service member. For the sake of our Nation and the patriotic Americans who volunteer to serve it, military service must be reserved for those mentally and physically fit for duty. The Armed Forces must adhere to high mental and physical health standards to ensure our military can deploy, fight, and win, including in austere conditions and without the benefit of routine medical treatment or special provisions. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States Government to establish high standards for troop readiness, lethality, cohesion, honesty, humility, uniformity, and integrity. This policy is inconsistent with the medical, surgical, and mental health constraints on individuals with gender dysphoria. This policy is also inconsistent with shifting pronoun usage or use of pronouns that inaccurately reflect an individual’s sex. Sec. 3. Definitions. The definitions in the Executive Order of January 20, 2025 (Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government) shall apply to this order. Sec. 4. Implementation. (a) Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Defense (Secretary) shall update DoDI 6130.03 Volume 1 (Medical Standards for Military Service: Appointment, Enlistment, or Induction (May 6, 2018), Incorporating Change 5 of May 28, 2024) and DoDI 6130.03 Volume 2 (Medical Standards for Military Service: Retention (September 4, 2020), Incorporating Change 1 of June 6, 2022) to reflect the purpose and policy of this Order. (b) The Secretary shall promptly issue directives for DoD to end invented and identification-based pronoun usage to best achieve the policy outlined in section 2 of this order. (c) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary shall: (i) identify all additional steps and issue guidance necessary to fully implement this order; and (ii) submit to the President through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs a report that summarizes these steps. (d) Absent extraordinary operational necessity, the Armed Forces shall neither allow males to use or share sleeping, changing, or bathing facilities designated for females, nor allow females to use or share sleeping, changing, or bathing facilities designated for males. (e) Within 30 days of the issuance of the respective updates, directives, and guidance under subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall, with respect to the Coast Guard, issue updates, directives, and guidance consistent with the updates, directives, and guidance issued under subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section. Sec. 5. Implementing the Revocation of Executive Order 14004. (a) Pursuant to the Executive Order of January 20, 2025 (Initial Rescissions of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions), Executive Order 14004 of January 25, 2021 (Enabling All Qualified Americans To Serve Their Country in Uniform), has been revoked. Accordingly, all policies, directives, and guidance issued pursuant to Executive Order 14004 shall be rescinded to the extent inconsistent with the provisions of this order. (b) The Secretary and, with respect to the Coast Guard, the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall take all necessary steps to implement the revocations described in subsection (a) of this section and ensure that all military departments and services fully comply with the provisions of this order. Sec. 6. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. Sec. 7. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 27, 2025.
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Background. On February 1, 2025, I determined that the failure of Canada to arrest, seize, detain, or otherwise intercept drug trafficking organizations, other drug and human traffickers, criminals at large, and illicit drugs constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial part outside the United States, to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. To address that threat, I invoked my authority under section 1702(a)(1)(B) of IEEPA to impose ad valorem tariffs on articles that are products of Canada. Sec. 2. Immediate Steps. Pursuant to section 3 of my Executive Order of February 1, 2025, titled “Imposing Duties to Address the Situation at Our Northern Border” (“the Executive Order of February 1, 2025”), I have determined that the Government of Canada has taken immediate steps designed to alleviate the illegal migration and illicit drug crisis through cooperative actions. Further time is needed, however, to assess whether these steps constitute sufficient action to alleviate the crisis and resolve the unusual and extraordinary threat beyond our northern border. Sec. 3. Pause. (a) In recognition of the steps taken by the Government of Canada, and in order to assess whether the threat described in section 1 of this order has abated, the additional 25 percent ad valorem rates of duty, and 10 percent ad valorem rates of duty as to energy products, shall be paused and will not take effect until March 4, 2025, at 12:01 a.m. eastern time. Accordingly, section 2(a), section 2(b), section 2(e), and section 2(f) of the Executive Order of February 1, 2025, are amended by striking the term “February 4, 2025,” where it appears in those sections and inserting in lieu thereof the term “March 4, 2025.” The exceptions set forth in section 2(a) and section 2(b) of the Executive Order of February 1, 2025, related to covered goods loaded onto a vessel at a port of entry or in transit on the final mode of transport prior to entry into the United States are, hereby, withdrawn.(b) During this pause, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security shall continue to assess the situation at our northern border, as provided in section 3 of the Executive Order of February 1, 2025.(c) If the illegal migration and illicit drug crises worsen, and if the Government of Canada fails to take sufficient steps to alleviate these crises, the President shall take necessary steps to address the situation, including by immediate implementation of the tariffs described in the Executive Order of February 1, 2025. Sec. 4. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.THE WHITE HOUSE, February 3, 2025.
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Background. On February 1, 2025, I determined that the failure of Mexico to arrest, seize, detain, or otherwise intercept Mexican drug trafficking organizations, other drug and human traffickers, criminals at large, and illicit drugs constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial part outside the United States, to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. To address that threat, I invoked my authority under section 1702(a)(1)(B) of IEEPA to impose ad valorem tariffs on articles that are products of Mexico. Sec. 2. Immediate Steps. Pursuant to section 3 of my Executive Order of February 1, 2025, titled “Imposing Duties to Address the Situation at Our Southern Border” (“the Executive Order of February 1, 2025”), I have determined that the Government of Mexico has taken immediate steps designed to alleviate the illegal migration and illicit drug crisis through cooperative actions. Further time is needed, however, to assess whether these steps constitute sufficient action to alleviate the crisis and resolve the unusual and extraordinary threat beyond our southern border. Sec. 3. Pause. (a) In recognition of the steps taken by the Government of Mexico, and in order to assess whether the threat described in section 1 of this order has abated, the additional 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty shall be paused and will not take effect until March 4, 2025, at 12:01 am eastern time. Accordingly, sections 2(a), sections 2(d), and section 2(e) of the Executive Order of February 1, 2025, are amended by striking the term “February 4, 2025,” where it appears in those sections and inserting in lieu thereof the term “March, 4, 2025.” The exceptions set forth in section 2(a) of the Executive Order of February 1, 2025, related to covered goods loaded onto a vessel at a port of entry or in transit on the final mode of transport prior to entry into the United States are, hereby, withdrawn. (b) During this pause, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, shall continue to assess the situation at our southern border, as provided in section 3 of the Executive Order of February 1, 2025. (c) If the illegal migration and illicit drug crises worsen, and if the Government of Mexico fails to take sufficient steps to alleviate these crises, the President shall take necessary steps to address the situation, including by immediate implementation of the tariffs described in the Executive Order of February 1, 2025. Sec. 4. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 3, 2025.
January 20, 2025 MEMORANDUM FOR THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION SUBJECT: Promoting Beautiful Federal Civic Architecture I hereby direct the Administrator of the General Services Administration, in consultation with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and the heads of departments and agencies of the United States where necessary, to submit to me within 60 days recommendations to advance the policy that Federal public buildings should be visually identifiable as civic buildings and respect regional, traditional, and classical architectural heritage in order to uplift and beautify public spaces and ennoble the United States and our system of self-government. Such recommendations shall consider appropriate revisions to the Guiding Principles for Federal Architecture and procedures for incorporating community input into Federal building design selections. If, before such recommendations are submitted, the Administrator of the General Services Administration proposes to approve a design for a new Federal public building that diverges from the policy set forth in this memorandum, the Administrator shall notify me, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, not less than 30 days before the General Services Administration could reject such design without incurring substantial expenditures. Such notification shall set forth the reasons the Administrator proposes to approve such design.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Policy and Purpose. Across the country today, medical professionals are maiming and sterilizing a growing number of impressionable children under the radical and false claim that adults can change a child’s sex through a series of irreversible medical interventions. This dangerous trend will be a stain on our Nation’s history, and it must end. Countless children soon regret that they have been mutilated and begin to grasp the horrifying tragedy that they will never be able to conceive children of their own or nurture their children through breastfeeding. Moreover, these vulnerable youths’ medical bills may rise throughout their lifetimes, as they are often trapped with lifelong medical complications, a losing war with their own bodies, and, tragically, sterilization. Accordingly, it is the policy of the United States that it will not fund, sponsor, promote, assist, or support the so-called “transition” of a child from one sex to another, and it will rigorously enforce all laws that prohibit or limit these destructive and life-altering procedures. Sec. 2. Definitions. For the purposes of this order: (a) The term “child” or “children” means an individual or individuals under 19 years of age. (b) The term “pediatric” means relating to the medical care of a child. (c) The phrase “chemical and surgical mutilation” means the use of puberty blockers, including GnRH agonists and other interventions, to delay the onset or progression of normally timed puberty in an individual who does not identify as his or her sex; the use of sex hormones, such as androgen blockers, estrogen, progesterone, or testosterone, to align an individual’s physical appearance with an identity that differs from his or her sex; and surgical procedures that attempt to transform an individual’s physical appearance to align with an identity that differs from his or her sex or that attempt to alter or remove an individual’s sexual organs to minimize or destroy their natural biological functions. This phrase sometimes is referred to as “gender affirming care.” Sec. 3. Ending Reliance on Junk Science. (a) The blatant harm done to children by chemical and surgical mutilation cloaks itself in medical necessity, spurred by guidance from the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH), which lacks scientific integrity. In light of the scientific concerns with the WPATH guidance: (i) agencies shall rescind or amend all policies that rely on WPATH guidance, including WPATH’s “Standards of Care Version 8”; and (ii) within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) shall publish a review of the existing literature on best practices for promoting the health of children who assert gender dysphoria, rapid-onset gender dysphoria, or other identity-based confusion. (b) The Secretary of HHS, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, shall use all available methods to increase the quality of data to guide practices for improving the health of minors with gender dysphoria, rapid-onset gender dysphoria, or other identity-based confusion, or who otherwise seek chemical or surgical mutilation. Sec. 4. Defunding Chemical and Surgical Mutilation. The head of each executive department or agency (agency) that provides research or education grants to medical institutions, including medical schools and hospitals, shall, consistent with applicable law and in coordination with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, immediately take appropriate steps to ensure that institutions receiving Federal research or education grants end the chemical and surgical mutilation of children. Sec. 5. Additional Directives to the Secretary of HHS. (a) The Secretary of HHS shall, consistent with applicable law, take all appropriate actions to end the chemical and surgical mutilation of children, including regulatory and sub-regulatory actions, which may involve the following laws, programs, issues, or documents: (i) Medicare or Medicaid conditions of participation or conditions for coverage; (ii) clinical-abuse or inappropriate-use assessments relevant to State Medicaid programs; (iii) mandatory drug use reviews; (iv) section 1557 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; (v) quality, safety, and oversight memoranda; (vi) essential health benefits requirements; and (vii) the Eleventh Revision of the International Classification of Diseases and other federally funded manuals, including the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition. (b) The Secretary of HHS shall promptly withdraw HHS’s March 2, 2022, guidance document titled “HHS Notice and Guidance on Gender Affirming Care, Civil Rights and Patient Privacy” and, in consultation with the Attorney General, issue new guidance protecting whistleblowers who take action related to ensuring compliance with this order. Sec. 6. TRICARE. The Department of Defense provides health insurance, through TRICARE, to nearly 2 million individuals under the age of 18. As appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of Defense shall commence a rulemaking or sub-regulatory action to exclude chemical and surgical mutilation of children from TRICARE coverage and amend the TRICARE provider handbook to exclude chemical and surgical mutilation of children. Sec. 7. Requirements for Insurance Carriers. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, shall: (a) include provisions in the Federal Employee Health Benefits (FEHB) and Postal Service Health Benefits (PSHB) programs call letter for the 2026 Plan Year specifying that eligible carriers, including the Foreign Service Benefit Plan, will exclude coverage for pediatric transgender surgeries or hormone treatments; and (b) negotiate to obtain appropriate corresponding reductions in FEHB and PSHB premiums. Sec. 8. Directives to the Department of Justice. The Attorney General shall: (a) review Department of Justice enforcement of section 116 of title 18, United States Code, and prioritize enforcement of protections against female genital mutilation; (b) convene States’ Attorneys General and other law enforcement officers to coordinate the enforcement of laws against female genital mutilation across all American States and Territories; (c) prioritize investigations and take appropriate action to end deception of consumers, fraud, and violations of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act by any entity that may be misleading the public about long-term side effects of chemical and surgical mutilation; (d) in consultation with the Congress, work to draft, propose, and promote legislation to enact a private right of action for children and the parents of children whose healthy body parts have been damaged by medical professionals practicing chemical and surgical mutilation, which should include a lengthy statute of limitations; and (e) prioritize investigations and take appropriate action to end child-abusive practices by so-called sanctuary States that facilitate stripping custody from parents who support the healthy development of their own children, including by considering the application of the Parental Kidnapping Prevention Act and recognized constitutional rights. Sec. 9. Enforcing Adequate Progress. Within 60 days of the date of this order, the heads of agencies with responsibilities under this order shall submit a single, combined report to the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, detailing progress in implementing this order and a timeline for future action. The Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall regularly convene the heads of agencies with responsibilities under this order (or their designees) to coordinate and prepare for this submission. Sec. 10. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstances, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of any of its other provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. Sec. 11. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 28, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. The Second Amendment is an indispensable safeguard of security and liberty. It has preserved the right of the American people to protect ourselves, our families, and our freedoms since the founding of our great Nation. Because it is foundational to maintaining all other rights held by Americans, the right to keep and bear arms must not be infringed. Sec. 2. Plan of Action. (a) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Attorney General shall examine all orders, regulations, guidance, plans, international agreements, and other actions of executive departments and agencies (agencies) to assess any ongoing infringements of the Second Amendment rights of our citizens, and present a proposed plan of action to the President, through the Domestic Policy Advisor, to protect the Second Amendment rights of all Americans. (b) In developing such proposed plan of action, the Attorney General shall review, at a minimum: (i) All Presidential and agencies’ actions from January 2021 through January 2025 that purport to promote safety but may have impinged on the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding citizens; (ii) Rules promulgated by the Department of Justice, including by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, from January 2021 through January 2025 pertaining to firearms and/or Federal firearms licensees; (iii) Agencies’ plans, orders, and actions regarding the so-called “enhanced regulatory enforcement policy” pertaining to firearms and/or Federal firearms licensees; (iv) Reports and related documents issued by the White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention; (v) The positions taken by the United States in any and all ongoing and potential litigation that affects or could affect the ability of Americans to exercise their Second Amendment rights; (vi) Agencies’ classifications of firearms and ammunition; and (vii) The processing of applications to make, manufacture, transfer, or export firearms. Sec. 3. Implementation. Upon submission of the proposed plan of action described in section 2 of this order, the Attorney General shall work with the Domestic Policy Advisor to finalize the plan of action and establish a process for implementation. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
PROTECTING THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AGAINST INVASION By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. Over the last 4 years, the prior administration invited, administered, and oversaw an unprecedented flood of illegal immigration into the United States. Millions of illegal aliens crossed our borders or were permitted to fly directly into the United States on commercial flights and allowed to settle in American communities, in violation of longstanding Federal laws. Many of these aliens unlawfully within the United States present significant threats to national security and public safety, committing vile and heinous acts against innocent Americans. Others are engaged in hostile activities, including espionage, economic espionage, and preparations for terror-related activities. Many have abused the generosity of the American people, and their presence in the United States has cost taxpayers billions of dollars at the Federal, State, and local levels. Enforcing our Nation’s immigration laws is critically important to the national security and public safety of the United States. The American people deserve a Federal Government that puts their interests first and a Government that understands its sacred obligation to prioritize the safety, security, and financial and economic well-being of Americans. This order ensures that the Federal Government protects the American people by faithfully executing the immigration laws of the United States. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to faithfully execute the immigration laws against all inadmissible and removable aliens, particularly those aliens who threaten the safety or security of the American people. Further, it is the policy of the United States to achieve the total and efficient enforcement of those laws, including through lawful incentives and detention capabilities. Sec. 3. Faithful Execution of the Immigration Laws. In furtherance of the policies described in section 2 of this order: (a) Executive Order 13993 of January 20, 2021 (Revision of Civil Immigration Enforcement Policies and Priorities), Executive Order 14010 of February 2, 2021 (Creating a Comprehensive Regional Framework To Address the Causes of Migration, To Manage Migration Throughout North and Central America, and To Provide Safe and Orderly Processing of Asylum Seekers at the United States Border), Executive Order 14011 of February 2, 2021 (Establishment of Interagency Task Force on the Reunification of Families), and Executive Order 14012 of February 2, 2021 (Restoring Faith in Our Legal Immigration Systems and Strengthening Integration and Inclusion Efforts for New Americans) are hereby revoked; and (b) Executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall take all appropriate action to promptly revoke all memoranda, guidance, or other policies based on the Executive Orders revoked in section 3(a) of this order and shall employ all lawful means to ensure the faithful execution of the immigration laws of the United States against all inadmissible and removable aliens. Sec. 4. Civil Enforcement Priorities. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action to enable the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to set priorities for their agencies that protect the public safety and national security interests of the American people, including by ensuring the successful enforcement of final orders of removal. Further, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that the primary mission of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations division is the enforcement of the provisions of the INA and other Federal laws related to the illegal entry and unlawful presence of aliens in the United States and the enforcement of the purposes of this order. Sec. 5. Criminal Enforcement Priorities. The Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall take all appropriate action to prioritize the prosecution of criminal offenses related to the unauthorized entry or continued unauthorized presence of aliens in the United States. Sec. 6. Federal Homeland Security Task Forces. (a) The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action to jointly establish Homeland Security Task Forces (HSTFs) in all States nationwide. (b) The composition of each HSTF shall be subject to the direction of the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security, but shall include representation from any other Federal agencies with law enforcement officers, or agencies with the ability to provide logistics, intelligence, and operational support to the HSTFs, and shall also include representation from relevant State and local law enforcement agencies. The heads of all Federal agencies shall take all appropriate action to provide support to the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security to ensure that the HSTFs fulfill the objectives in subsection (c) of this section, and any other lawful purpose that fulfills the policy objectives of this order. (c) The objective of each HSTF is to end the presence of criminal cartels, foreign gangs, and transnational criminal organizations throughout the United States, dismantle cross-border human smuggling and trafficking networks, end the scourge of human smuggling and trafficking, with a particular focus on such offenses involving children, and ensure the use of all available law enforcement tools to faithfully execute the immigration laws of the United States. (d) The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action to provide an operational command center to coordinate the activities of the HSTFs and provide such support as they may require, and shall also take all appropriate action to provide supervisory direction to their activities as may be required. Sec. 7. Identification of Unregistered Illegal Aliens. The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, shall take all appropriate action to: (a) Immediately announce and publicize information about the legal obligation of all previously unregistered aliens in the United States to comply with the requirements of part VII of subchapter II of chapter 12 of title 8, United States Code; (b) Ensure that all previously unregistered aliens in the United States comply with the requirements of part VII of subchapter II of chapter 12 of title 8, United States Code; and (c) Ensure that failure to comply with the legal obligations of part VII of subchapter II of chapter 12 of title 8, United States Code, is treated as a civil and criminal enforcement priority. Sec. 8. Civil Fines and Penalties. (a) The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of Treasury, shall take all appropriate action to ensure the assessment and collection of all fines and penalties that the Secretary of Homeland Security is authorized by law to assess and collect from aliens unlawfully present in the United States, including aliens who unlawfully entered or unlawfully attempted to enter the United States, and from those who facilitate such aliens’ presence in the United States. (b) Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a report to the President regarding their progress implementing the requirements of this section and recommending any additional actions that may need to be taken to achieve its objectives. Sec. 9. Efficient Removals of Recent Entrants and Other Aliens. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action, pursuant to section 235(b)(1)(A)(iii)(I) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1225(b)(1)(A)(iii)(I)), to apply, in her sole and unreviewable discretion, the provisions of section 235(b)(1)(A)(i) and (ii) of the INA to the aliens designated under section 235(b)(1)(A)(iii)(II). Further, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly take appropriate action to use all other provisions of the immigration laws or any other Federal law, including, but not limited to sections 238 and 240(d) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1228 and 1229a(d)), to ensure the efficient and expedited removal of aliens from the United States. Sec. 10. Detention Facilities. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly take all appropriate action and allocate all legally available resources or establish contracts to construct, operate, control, or use facilities to detain removable aliens. The Secretary of Homeland Security, further, shall take all appropriate actions to ensure the detention of aliens apprehended for violations of immigration law pending the outcome of their removal proceedings or their removal from the country, to the extent permitted by law. Sec. 11. Federal-State Agreements. To ensure State and local law enforcement agencies across the United States can assist with the protection of the American people, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall, to the maximum extent permitted by law, and with the consent of State or local officials as appropriate, take appropriate action, through agreements under section 287(g) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1357(g)) or otherwise, to authorize State and local law enforcement officials, as the Secretary of Homeland Security determines are qualified and appropriate, to perform the functions of immigration officers in relation to the investigation, apprehension, or detention of aliens in the United States under the direction and the supervision of the Secretary of Homeland Security. Such authorization shall be in addition to, rather than in place of, Federal performance of these duties. To the extent permitted by law, the Secretary of Homeland Security may structure each agreement under section 287(g) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1357(g)) in the manner that provides the most effective model for enforcing Federal immigration laws in that jurisdiction. Sec. 12. Encouraging Voluntary Compliance with the Law. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, and subject to adequate safeguards, assurances, bonds, and any other lawful measure, to adopt policies and procedures to encourage aliens unlawfully in the United States to voluntarily depart as soon as possible, including through enhanced usage of the provisions of section 240B of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1229c), international agreements or assistance, or any other measures that encourage aliens unlawfully in the United States to depart as promptly as possible, including through removals of aliens as provided by section 250 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1260). Sec. 13. Recalcitrant Countries. The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action to: (a) Cooperate and effectively implement, as appropriate, the sanctions provided by section 243(d) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1253(d)), with the Secretary of State, to the maximum extent permitted by law, ensuring that diplomatic efforts and negotiations with foreign states include the foreign states’ acceptance of their nationals who are subject to removal from the United States; and (b) Eliminate all documentary barriers, dilatory tactics, or other restrictions that prevent the prompt repatriation of aliens to any foreign state. Any failure or delay by a foreign state to verify the identity of a national of that state shall be considered in carrying out subsection (a) this section, and shall also be considered regarding the issuance of any other sanctions that may be available to the United States. Sec. 14. Visa Bonds. The Secretary of Treasury shall take all appropriate action, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security, to establish a system to facilitate the administration of all bonds that the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security may lawfully require to administer the provisions of the INA. Sec. 15. Reestablishment of the VOICE Office and Addressing Victims of Crimes Committed by Removable Aliens. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall direct the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to take all appropriate and lawful action to reestablish within ICE an office to provide proactive, timely, adequate, and professional services to victims of crimes committed by removable aliens, and those victims’ family members. The Attorney General shall also ensure that the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 3771 are followed in all Federal prosecutions involving crimes committed by removable aliens. Sec. 16. Addressing Actions by the Previous Administration. The Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly take all appropriate action, consistent with law, to rescind the policy decisions of the previous administration that led to the increased or continued presence of illegal aliens in the United States, and align any and all departmental activities with the policies set out by this order and the immigration laws. Such action should include, but is not limited to: (a) ensuring that the parole authority under section 212(d)(5) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5)) is exercised on only a case-by-case basis in accordance with the plain language of the statute, and in all circumstances only when an individual alien demonstrates urgent humanitarian reasons or a significant public benefit derived from their particular continued presence in the United States arising from such parole; (b) ensuring that designations of Temporary Protected Status are consistent with the provisions of section 244 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1254a), and that such designations are appropriately limited in scope and made for only so long as may be necessary to fulfill the textual requirements of that statute; and (c) ensuring that employment authorization is provided in a manner consistent with section 274A of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1324a), and that employment authorization is not provided to any unauthorized alien in the United States. Sec. 17. Sanctuary Jurisdictions. The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall, to the maximum extent possible under law, evaluate and undertake any lawful actions to ensure that so-called “sanctuary” jurisdictions, which seek to interfere with the lawful exercise of Federal law enforcement operations, do not receive access to Federal funds. Further, the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall evaluate and undertake any other lawful actions, criminal or civil, that they deem warranted based on any such jurisdiction’s practices that interfere with the enforcement of Federal law. Sec. 18. Information Sharing. (a) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly issue guidance to ensure maximum compliance by Department of Homeland Security personnel with the provisions of 8 U.S.C. 1373 and 8 U.S.C. 1644 and ensure that State and local governments are provided with the information necessary to fulfill law enforcement, citizenship, or immigration status verification requirements authorized by law; and (b) The Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action to stop the trafficking and smuggling of alien children into the United States, including through the sharing of any information necessary to assist in the achievement of that objective. Sec. 19. Funding Review. The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall: (a) Immediately review and, if appropriate, audit all contracts, grants, or other agreements providing Federal funding to non-governmental organizations supporting or providing services, either directly or indirectly, to removable or illegal aliens, to ensure that such agreements conform to applicable law and are free of waste, fraud, and abuse, and that they do not promote or facilitate violations of our immigration laws; (b) Pause distribution of all further funds pursuant to such agreements pending the results of the review in subsection (a) of this section; (c) Terminate all such agreements determined to be in violation of law or to be sources of waste, fraud, or abuse and prohibit any such future agreements; (d) Coordinate with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to ensure that no funding for agreements described in subsection (c) of this section is included in any appropriations request for the Department of Justice or the Department of Homeland Security; and (e) Initiate clawback or recoupment procedures, if appropriate, for any agreements described in subsection (c) of this section. Sec. 20. Denial of Public Benefits to Illegal Aliens. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall take all appropriate action to ensure that all agencies identify and stop the provision of any public benefits to any illegal alien not authorized to receive them under the provisions of the INA or other relevant statutory provisions. Sec. 21. Hiring More Agents and Officers. Subject to available appropriations, the Secretary of Homeland Security, through the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, shall take all appropriate action to significantly increase the number of agents and officers available to perform the duties of immigration officers. Sec. 22. Severability. It is the policy of the United States to enforce this order to the maximum extent possible to advance the interests of the United States. Accordingly: (a) If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its other provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby; and (b) If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid because of the failure to follow certain procedures, the relevant executive branch officials shall implement those procedural requirements to conform with existing law and with any applicable court orders. Sec. 23. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. The privilege of United States citizenship is a priceless and profound gift. The Fourteenth Amendment states: “All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.” That provision rightly repudiated the Supreme Court of the United States’s shameful decision in Dred Scott v. Sandford, 60 U.S. (19 How.) 393 (1857), which misinterpreted the Constitution as permanently excluding people of African descent from eligibility for United States citizenship solely based on their race. But the Fourteenth Amendment has never been interpreted to extend citizenship universally to everyone born within the United States. The Fourteenth Amendment has always excluded from birthright citizenship persons who were born in the United States but not “subject to the jurisdiction thereof.” Consistent with this understanding, the Congress has further specified through legislation that “a person born in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof” is a national and citizen of the United States at birth, 8 U.S.C. 1401, generally mirroring the Fourteenth Amendment’s text. Among the categories of individuals born in the United States and not subject to the jurisdiction thereof, the privilege of United States citizenship does not automatically extend to persons born in the United States: (1) when that person’s mother was unlawfully present in the United States and the father was not a United States citizen or lawful permanent resident at the time of said person’s birth, or (2) when that person’s mother’s presence in the United States at the time of said person’s birth was lawful but temporary (such as, but not limited to, visiting the United States under the auspices of the Visa Waiver Program or visiting on a student, work, or tourist visa) and the father was not a United States citizen or lawful permanent resident at the time of said person’s birth. Sec. 2. Policy. (a) It is the policy of the United States that no department or agency of the United States government shall issue documents recognizing United States citizenship, or accept documents issued by State, local, or other governments or authorities purporting to recognize United States citizenship, to persons: (1) when that person’s mother was unlawfully present in the United States and the person’s father was not a United States citizen or lawful permanent resident at the time of said person’s birth, or (2) when that person’s mother’s presence in the United States was lawful but temporary, and the person’s father was not a United States citizen or lawful permanent resident at the time of said person’s birth. (b) Subsection (a) of this section shall apply only to persons who are born within the United States after 30 days from the date of this order. (c) Nothing in this order shall be construed to affect the entitlement of other individuals, including children of lawful permanent residents, to obtain documentation of their United States citizenship. Sec. 3. Enforcement. (a) The Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Commissioner of Social Security shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that the regulations and policies of their respective departments and agencies are consistent with this order, and that no officers, employees, or agents of their respective departments and agencies act, or forbear from acting, in any manner inconsistent with this order. (b) The heads of all executive departments and agencies shall issue public guidance within 30 days of the date of this order regarding this order’s implementation with respect to their operations and activities. Sec. 4. Definitions. As used in this order: (a) “Mother” means the immediate female biological progenitor. (b) “Father” means the immediate male biological progenitor. Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
PROTECTING THE UNITED STATES FROM FOREIGN TERRORISTS AND OTHER NATIONAL SECURITY AND PUBLIC SAFETY THREATS By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq., and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Policy and Purpose. (a) It is the policy of the United States to protect its citizens from aliens who intend to commit terrorist attacks, threaten our national security, espouse hateful ideology, or otherwise exploit the immigration laws for malevolent purposes. (b) To protect Americans, the United States must be vigilant during the visa-issuance process to ensure that those aliens approved for admission into the United States do not intend to harm Americans or our national interests. More importantly, the United States must identify them before their admission or entry into the United States. And the United States must ensure that admitted aliens and aliens otherwise already present in the United States do not bear hostile attitudes toward its citizens, culture, government, institutions, or founding principles, and do not advocate for, aid, or support designated foreign terrorists and other threats to our national security. Sec. 2. Enhanced Vetting and Screening Across Agencies. (a) The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, shall promptly: (i) identify all resources that may be used to ensure that all aliens seeking admission to the United States, or who are already in the United States, are vetted and screened to the maximum degree possible; (ii) determine the information needed from any country to adjudicate any visa, admission, or other benefit under the INA for one of its nationals, and to ascertain whether the individual seeking the benefit is who the individual claims to be and that the individual is not a security or public-safety threat; (iii) re-establish a uniform baseline for screening and vetting standards and procedures, consistent with the uniform baseline that existed on January 19, 2021, that will be used for any alien seeking a visa or immigration benefit of any kind; and (iv) vet and screen to the maximum degree possible all aliens who intend to be admitted, enter, or are already inside the United States, particularly those aliens coming from regions or nations with identified security risks. (b) Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence shall jointly submit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, a report: (i) identifying countries throughout the world for which vetting and screening information is so deficient as to warrant a partial or full suspension on the admission of nationals from those countries pursuant to section 212(f) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)); and (ii) identifying how many nationals from those countries have entered or have been admitted into the United States on or since January 20, 2021, and any other information the Secretaries and Attorney General deem relevant to the actions or activities of such nationals since their admission or entry to the United States. (c) Whenever information is identified that would support the exclusion or removal of any alien described in subsection 2(b), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take immediate steps to exclude or remove that alien unless she determines that doing so would inhibit a significant pending investigation or prosecution of the alien for a serious criminal offense or would be contrary to the national security interests of the United States. Sec. 3. Additional Measures to Protect the Nation. As soon as possible, but no later than 30 days from the date of this order, the Secretary of State, in coordination with the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, shall also: (a) Evaluate and adjust all existing regulations, policies, procedures, and provisions of the Foreign Service Manual, or guidance of any kind pertaining to each of the grounds of inadmissibility listed in sections 212(a)(2)-(3) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)-(3)), to ensure the continued safety and security of the American people and our constitutional republic; (b) Ensure that sufficient safeguards are in place to prevent any refugee or stateless individual from being admitted to the United States without undergoing stringent identification verification beyond that required of any other alien seeking admission or entry to the United States; (c) Evaluate all visa programs to ensure that they are not used by foreign nation-states or other hostile actors to harm the security, economic, political, cultural, or other national interests of the United States; (d) Recommend any actions necessary to protect the American people from the actions of foreign nationals who have undermined or seek to undermine the fundamental constitutional rights of the American people, including, but not limited to, our Citizens’ rights to freedom of speech and the free exercise of religion protected by the First Amendment, who preach or call for sectarian violence, the overthrow or replacement of the culture on which our constitutional Republic stands, or who provide aid, advocacy, or support for foreign terrorists; (e) Ensure the devotion of adequate resources to identify and take appropriate action for offenses described in 8 U.S.C. 1451; (f) Evaluate the adequacy of programs designed to ensure the proper assimilation of lawful immigrants into the United States, and recommend any additional measures to be taken that promote a unified American identity and attachment to the Constitution, laws, and founding principles of the United States; and (g) Recommend any additional actions to protect the American people and our constitutional republic from foreign threats. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Purpose. The United States must grow its economy and maintain jobs for its citizens while playing a leadership role in global efforts to protect the environment. Over decades, with the help of sensible policies that do not encumber private-sector activity, the United States has simultaneously grown its economy, raised worker wages, increased energy production, reduced air and water pollution, and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. The United States’ successful track record of advancing both economic and environmental objectives should be a model for other countries. In recent years, the United States has purported to join international agreements and initiatives that do not reflect our country’s values or our contributions to the pursuit of economic and environmental objectives. Moreover, these agreements steer American taxpayer dollars to countries that do not require, or merit, financial assistance in the interests of the American people. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of my Administration to put the interests of the United States and the American people first in the development and negotiation of any international agreements with the potential to damage or stifle the American economy. These agreements must not unduly or unfairly burden the United States. Sec. 3. Implementation. (a) The United States Ambassador to the United Nations shall immediately submit formal written notification of the United States’ withdrawal from the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The notice shall be submitted to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Depositary of the Agreement, attached as Appendix A. The United States will consider its withdrawal from the Agreement and any attendant obligations to be effective immediately upon this provision of notification. (b) The United States Ambassador to the United Nations shall immediately submit written formal notification to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, or any relevant party, of the United States’ withdrawal from any agreement, pact, accord, or similar commitment made under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. (c) The United States Ambassador to the United Nations, in collaboration with the Secretary of State and Secretary of the Treasury, shall immediately cease or revoke any purported financial commitment made by the United States under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. (d) Immediately upon completion of the tasks listed in subsections (a), (b), and (c), the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, in collaboration with the Secretary of State and Secretary of the Treasury shall certify a report to the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs that describes in detail any further action required to achieve the policy objectives set forth in section 2 of this order. (e) The U.S. International Climate Finance Plan is revoked and rescinded immediately. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall, within 10 days of this order, issue guidance for the rescission of all frozen funds. (f) Within 30 days of this order, the Secretary of State, Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of Commerce, Secretary of Health and Human Services, Secretary of Energy, Secretary of Agriculture, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, Chief Executive Officer of the International Development Finance Corporation, Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation, Director of the U.S. Trade and Development Agency, President of the Export-Import Bank, and head of any other relevant department or agency shall submit a report to the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs that details their actions to revoke or rescind policies that were implemented to advance the International Climate Finance Plan. (g) The Secretary of State, Secretary of Commerce, and the head of any department or agency that plans or coordinates international energy agreements shall henceforth prioritize economic efficiency, the promotion of American prosperity, consumer choice, and fiscal restraint in all foreign engagements that concern energy policy. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or any other persons. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025. 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES SUBJECT: Radical Transparency About Wasteful Spending The United States Government spends too much money on programs, contracts, and grants that do not promote the interests of the American people. For too long, taxpayers have subsidized ideological projects overseas and domestic organizations engaged in actions that undermine the national interest. The American people have seen their tax dollars used to fund the passion projects of unelected bureaucrats rather than to advance the national interest. The American people have a right to see how the Federal Government has wasted their hard-earned wages. I therefore direct the heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) to take all appropriate actions to make public, to the maximum extent permitted by law and as the heads of agencies deem appropriate to promote the policies of my Administration, the complete details of every terminated program, cancelled contract, terminated grant, or any other discontinued obligation of Federal funds. Agencies shall ensure that such publication occurs in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the underlying contract, grant, or other award.
On Wednesday, President Donald J. Trump held his first foreign leader call with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The two leaders discussed efforts to bring stability to the Middle East, bolster regional security, and combat terrorism. Additionally, they discussed the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s international economic ambitions over the next four years as well as trade and other opportunities to increase the mutual prosperity of the United States and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
Today, President Donald J. Trump held a call with His Majesty King Hamad Bin Isa Al Khalifa of Bahrain. King Hamad congratulated President Trump on his inauguration and the two leaders discussed their support for regional peace and security, including building upon their work to promote peace through the Abraham Accords. 
Today, President Donald J. Trump held a call with His Majesty King Abdullah II of Jordan, in which King Abdullah congratulated President Trump on his inauguration. President Trump thanked King Abdullah for his longtime friendship, and the two leaders discussed the importance of regional peace, security, and stability.
On Saturday, President Donald J. Trump received a call from President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, in which President el-Sisi congratulated President Trump on his inauguration. President Trump thanked President el-Sisi for his friendship, and discussed the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam. The two leaders also discussed Egypt’s important role in the release of hostages from Gaza and President el-Sisi expressed his confidence that President Trump’s leadership could usher in a golden age of Middle East peace.
Today, President Donald J. Trump held a call with President Nayib Bukele of the Republic of El Salvador. The two leaders discussed working together to stop illegal immigration and crack down on transnational gangs like Tren de Aragua. President Trump also praised President Bukele’s leadership in the region and the example he sets for other nations in the Western Hemisphere.
Today, President Donald J. Trump held a productive call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India. The two leaders discussed expanding and deepening cooperation. They also discussed a range of regional issues, including security in the Indo-Pacific, the Middle East, and Europe. The President emphasized the importance of India increasing its procurement of American-made security equipment and moving toward a fair bilateral trading relationship. The leaders discussed plans for Prime Minister Modi to visit the White House, underscoring the strength of the friendship and strategic ties between our nations. Both leaders emphasized their commitment to advance the U.S.-India strategic partnership and the Indo-Pacific Quad partnership, with India hosting Quad Leaders for the first time later this year. 
Today, President Donald J. Trump held a call with Prime Minister Keir Starmer of the United Kingdom. President Trump offered his condolences for the recent loss of the Prime Minister’s brother and expressed his well wishes for the British Royal Family. The two leaders also discussed the recent release of Israeli-British national Emily Damari from Hamas captivity and how both countries can promote a fair bilateral economic relationship.
Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump and His Majesty King Abdullah II of Jordan held a warm and productive working meeting at the White House. King Abdullah congratulated President Trump on his very successful first weeks in office, and thanked the President for his leadership in securing the release of hostages from Gaza and a temporary pause in hostilities. The President affirmed the strength of relations between the United States and Jordan, and thanked His Majesty for the Kingdom’s longstanding commitment to promoting and advancing regional peace. President Trump and King Abdullah also discussed the situation in Gaza. The President reiterated that Hamas must release all hostages, including all Americans, by Saturday, and asked for the King’s assistance in ensuring that Hamas, as well as the leaders of the region, understand the severity of the situation. The two leaders also discussed the President’s goal of ensuring that Gaza is rebuilt beautifully after the conflict ends, and providing options for the people of Gaza that allow them to live in security and dignity, and free of Hamas’s tyranny. 
REALIGNING THE United States REFUGEE ADMISSIONS PROGRAM By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq., and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. Over the last 4 years, the United States has been inundated with record levels of migration, including through the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP). Cities and small towns alike, from Charleroi, Pennsylvania, and Springfield, Ohio, to Whitewater, Wisconsin, have seen significant influxes of migrants. Even major urban centers such as New York City, Chicago, and Denver have sought Federal aid to manage the burden of new arrivals. Some jurisdictions, like New York and Massachusetts, have even recently declared states of emergency because of increased migration. The United States lacks the ability to absorb large numbers of migrants, and in particular, refugees, into its communities in a manner that does not compromise the availability of resources for Americans, that protects their safety and security, and that ensures the appropriate assimilation of refugees. This order suspends the USRAP until such time as the further entry into the United States of refugees aligns with the interests of the United States. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to ensure that public safety and national security are paramount considerations in the administration of the USRAP, and to admit only those refugees who can fully and appropriately assimilate into the United States and to ensure that the United States preserves taxpayer resources for its citizens. It is also the policy of the United States that, to the extent permitted by law and as practicable, State and local jurisdictions be granted a role in the process of determining the placement or settlement in their jurisdictions of aliens eligible to be admitted to the United States as refugees. Sec. 3. Realignment of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program. (a) I hereby proclaim, pursuant to sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), that entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP would be detrimental to the interests of the United States. I therefore direct that entry into the United States of refugees under the USRAP be suspended — subject to the exceptions set forth in subsection (c) of this section — until a finding is made in accordance with section 4 of this order. This suspension shall take effect at 12:01 am eastern standard time on January 27, 2025. (b) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall suspend decisions on applications for refugee status, until a finding is made in accordance with section 4 of this order. (c) Notwithstanding the suspension of the USRAP imposed pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security may jointly determine to admit aliens to the United States as refugees on a case-by-case basis, in their discretion, but only so long as they determine that the entry of such aliens as refugees is in the national interest and does not pose a threat to the security or welfare of the United States. (d) The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Attorney General, shall examine existing law to determine the extent to which, consistent with applicable law, State and local jurisdictions may have greater involvement in the process of determining the placement or resettlement of refugees in their jurisdictions, and shall devise a proposal to lawfully promote such involvement. In all cases, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall ensure that the State and local consultation requirements in 8 U.S.C. 1522(a)(2) are carried out with respect to all refugees admitted to the United States. Sec. 4. Resumption of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program. Within 90 days of this order, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit a report to the President through the Homeland Security Advisor regarding whether resumption of entry of refugees into the United States under the USRAP would be in the interests of the United States, in light of the policies outlined in section 2 of this order. The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit further reports every 90 days thereafter until I determine that resumption of the USRAP is in the interests of the United States. Sec. 5. Revocation. Executive Order 14013 of February 4, 2021 (Rebuilding and Enhancing Programs To Resettle Refugees and Planning for the Impact of Climate Change on Migration), is hereby revoked. Sec. 6. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its other provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. Sec. 7. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR ECONOMIC POLICY THE SENIOR COUNSELOR TO THE PRESIDENT FOR TRADE AND MANUFACTURING SUBJECT: Reciprocal Trade and Tariffs Section 1. Background. The United States has one of the most open economies and has among the lowest average weighted tariff rates in the world. The United States imposes fewer barriers to imports than other major world economies, including those with similar political and economic systems. For many years, the United States has been treated unfairly by trading partners, both friend and foe. This lack of reciprocity is one source of our country’s large and persistent annual trade deficit in goods — closed markets abroad reduce United States exports and open markets at home result in significant imports. Our workers and industries bear the brunt of unfair practices and limited access to foreign markets. As noted in the Presidential Memorandum of January 20, 2025 (America First Trade Policy Memorandum), this situation is untenable. The trade deficit of the United States threatens our economic and national security, has hollowed out our industrial base, has reduced our overall national competitiveness, and has made our Nation dependent on other countries to meet our key security needs. By making trade more reciprocal and balanced, we can reduce the trade deficit; grow the United States economy; and improve our trade relationships with trading partners to the benefit of American workers, manufacturers, farmers, ranchers, entrepreneurs, and businesses. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to reduce our large and persistent annual trade deficit in goods and to address other unfair and unbalanced aspects of our trade with foreign trading partners. In pursuit of this policy, I will introduce the “Fair and Reciprocal Plan”(Plan). Under the Plan, my Administration will work strenuously to counter non-reciprocal trading arrangements with trading partners by determining the equivalent of a reciprocal tariff with respect to each foreign trading partner. This approach will be of comprehensive scope, examining non-reciprocal trade relationships with all United States trading partners, including any: (a) tariffs imposed on United States products; (b) unfair, discriminatory, or extraterritorial taxes imposed by our trading partners on United States businesses, workers, and consumers, including a value-added tax; (c) costs to United States businesses, workers, and consumers arising from nontariff barriers or measures and unfair or harmful acts, policies, or practices, including subsidies, and burdensome regulatory requirements on United States businesses operating in other countries; (d) policies and practices that cause exchange rates to deviate from their market value, to the detriment of Americans; wage suppression; and other mercantilist policies that make United States businesses and workers less competitive; and (e) any other practice that, in the judgment of the United States Trade Representative, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Senior Counselor to the President for Trade and Manufacturing, imposes any unfair limitation on market access or any structural impediment to fair competition with the market economy of the United States. The Plan shall ensure comprehensive fairness and balance across the international trading system by factoring in losses as a result of measures that disadvantage the United States as applied, regardless of what they are called or whether they are written or unwritten. Sec. 3. Taking Action. (a) After the submission of the specified agency reports due under the America First Trade Policy Memorandum, the Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade Representative, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor to the President for Trade and Manufacturing, and the heads of such other executive departments and agencies as the Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade Representative deem relevant, shall initiate, pursuant to their respective legal authorities, all necessary actions to investigate the harm to the United States from any non-reciprocal trade arrangements adopted by any trading partners. Upon completion of such necessary actions, they shall submit to me a report detailing proposed remedies in pursuit of reciprocal trade relations with each trading partner. (b) Within 180 days of the date of this memorandum, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall assess all fiscal impacts on the Federal Government and the impacts of any information collection requests on the public, and shall deliver an assessment in writing to the President. Sec. 4. Definitions. For the purposes of this memorandum: (a) “Value-added tax” means a type of consumption tax that is levied on the incremental increase in value of a good or service at each stage of the supply chain. (b) “Nontariff barrier” or “measure” means any government-imposed measure or policy or nonmonetary barrier that restricts, prevents, or impedes international trade in goods, including import policies, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, technical barriers to trade, government procurement, export subsidies, lack of intellectual property protection, digital trade barriers, and government-tolerated anticompetitive conduct of state-owned or private firms. Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. (d) The United States Trade Representative is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. The United States foreign aid industry and bureaucracy are not aligned with American interests and in many cases antithetical to American values. They serve to destabilize world peace by promoting ideas in foreign countries that are directly inverse to harmonious and stable relations internal to and among countries. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of United States that no further United States foreign assistance shall be disbursed in a manner that is not fully aligned with the foreign policy of the President of the United States. Sec. 3. (a) 90-day pause in United States foreign development assistance for assessment of programmatic efficiencies and consistency with United States foreign policy. All department and agency heads with responsibility for United States foreign development assistance programs shall immediately pause new obligations and disbursements of development assistance funds to foreign countries and implementing non-governmental organizations, international organizations, and contractors pending reviews of such programs for programmatic efficiency and consistency with United States foreign policy, to be conducted within 90 days of this order. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) shall enforce this pause through its apportionment authority. (b) Reviews of United States foreign assistance programs. Reviews of each foreign assistance program shall be ordered by the responsible department and agency heads under guidelines provided by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Director of OMB. (c) Determinations. The responsible department and agency heads, in consultation with the Director of OMB, will make determinations within 90 days of this order on whether to continue, modify, or cease each foreign assistance program based upon the review recommendations, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State. (d) Resumption of paused development assistance funding. New obligations and disbursements of foreign development assistance funds may resume for a program prior to the end of the 90-day period if a review is conducted, and the Secretary of State or his designee, in consultation with the Director of OMB, decide to continue the program in the same or modified form. Additionally, any other new foreign assistance programs and obligations must be approved by the Secretary of State or his designee, in consultation with the Director of OMB. (e) Waiver. The Secretary of State may waive the pause in Section 3(a) for specific programs. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
REFORMING THE FEDERAL HIRING PROCESS AND RESTORING MERIT TO GOVERNMENT SERVICE By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including sections 3301, 3302, and 7511 of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Policy. American citizens deserve an excellent and efficient Federal workforce that attracts the highest caliber of civil servants committed to achieving the freedom, prosperity, and democratic rule that our Constitution promotes. But current Federal hiring practices are broken, insular, and outdated. They no longer focus on merit, practical skill, and dedication to our Constitution. Federal hiring should not be based on impermissible factors, such as one’s commitment to illegal racial discrimination under the guise of “equity,” or one’s commitment to the invented concept of “gender identity” over sex. Inserting such factors into the hiring process subverts the will of the People, puts critical government functions at risk, and risks losing the best-qualified candidates. By making our recruitment and hiring processes more efficient and focused on serving the Nation, we will ensure that the Federal workforce is prepared to help achieve American greatness, and attracts the talent necessary to serve our citizens effectively. By significantly improving hiring principles and practices, Americans will receive the Federal resources and services they deserve from the highest-skilled Federal workforce in the world. Sec. 2. Federal Hiring Plan. (a) Within 120 days of the date of this order, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, and the Administrator of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), shall develop and send to agency heads a Federal Hiring Plan that brings to the Federal workforce only highly skilled Americans dedicated to the furtherance of American ideals, values, and interests. (b) This Federal Hiring Plan shall: (i) prioritize recruitment of individuals committed to improving the efficiency of the Federal government, passionate about the ideals of our American republic, and committed to upholding the rule of law and the United States Constitution; (ii) prevent the hiring of individuals based on their race, sex, or religion, and prevent the hiring of individuals who are unwilling to defend the Constitution or to faithfully serve the Executive Branch; (iii) implement, to the greatest extent possible, technical and alternative assessments as required by the Chance to Compete Act of 2024; (iv) decrease government-wide time-to-hire to under 80 days; (v) improve communication with candidates to provide greater clarity regarding application status, timelines, and feedback, including regular updates on the progress of applications and explanations of hiring decisions where appropriate; (vi) integrate modern technology to support the recruitment and selection process, including the use of data analytics to identify trends, gaps, and opportunities in hiring, as well as leveraging digital platforms to improve candidate engagement; and (vii) ensure Department and Agency leadership, or their designees, are active participants in implementing the new processes and throughout the full hiring process. (c) This Federal Hiring Plan shall include specific agency plans to improve the allocation of Senior Executive Service positions in the Cabinet agencies, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Office of Management and Budget, the Small Business Administration, the Social Security Administration, the National Science Foundation, the Office of Personnel Management, and the General Services Administration, to best facilitate democratic leadership, as required by law, within each agency. (d) The Federal Hiring Plan shall provide specific best practices for the human resources function in each agency, which each agency head shall implement, with advice and recommendations as appropriate from DOGE. Sec. 3. Accountability and Reporting. (a) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall establish clear performance metrics to evaluate the success of these reforms, and request agency analysis on a regular basis. (b) The Office of Personnel Management shall consult with Federal agencies, labor organizations, and other stakeholders to monitor progress and ensure that the reforms are meeting the needs of both candidates and agencies. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals; or (iii) the functions of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or the Federal Open Market Committee relating to its conduct of monetary policy. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, I hereby order all executive departments and agencies to take the following steps: (1) Do not propose or issue any rule in any manner, including by sending a rule to the Office of the Federal Register (the “OFR”), until a department or agency head appointed or designated by the President after noon on January 20, 2025, reviews and approves the rule. The department or agency head may delegate this power of review and approval to any other person so appointed or designated by the President, consistent with applicable law. The Director or Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget (the “OMB Director”) may exempt any rule that he deems necessary to address emergency situations or other urgent circumstances, including rules subject to statutory or judicial deadlines that require prompt action. (2) Immediately withdraw any rules that have been sent to the OFR but not published in the Federal Register, so that they can be reviewed and approved as described in paragraph 1, subject to the exceptions described in paragraph 1. (3) Consistent with applicable law and subject to the exceptions described in paragraph 1, consider postponing for 60 days from the date of this memorandum the effective date for any rules that have been published in the Federal Register, or any rules that have been issued in any manner but have not taken effect, for the purpose of reviewing any questions of fact, law, and policy that the rules may raise. During this 60-day period, where appropriate and consistent with applicable law, consider opening a comment period to allow interested parties to provide comments about issues of fact, law, and policy raised by the rules postponed under this memorandum, and consider reevaluating pending petitions involving such rules. As appropriate and consistent with applicable law, and where necessary to continue to review these questions of fact, law, and policy, consider further delaying, or publishing for notice and comment, proposed rules further delaying such rules beyond the 60-day period. (4) Following the postponement described in paragraph 3, no further action needs to be taken for those rules that raise no substantial questions of fact, law, or policy. For those rules that raise substantial questions of fact, law, or policy, agencies should notify and take further appropriate action in consultation with the OMB Director. (5) Comply in all circumstances with any applicable Executive Orders concerning regulatory management. As used in this memorandum, “rule” has the definition set forth in section 551(4), title 5, United States Code. It also includes any “regulatory action,” as defined in section 3(e) of Executive Order 12866 of September 30, 1993, as amended, and any “guidance document” as defined in section 2(b) of Executive Order 13891 of October 9, 2019 (Promoting the Rule of Law Through Improved Agency Guidance Documents), when that order was in effect. Thus, the requirements of this memorandum apply not only to “rules” as defined in section 551(4) of title 5, but also to any substantive action by an agency (normally published in the Federal Register) that promulgates or is expected to lead to the promulgation of a final rule or regulation, including notices of inquiry, advance notices of proposed rulemaking, and notices of proposed rulemaking. They shall also apply to any agency statement of general applicability and future effect that sets forth a policy on a statutory, regulatory, or technical issue or an interpretation of a statutory or regulatory issue. The OMB Director shall oversee the implementation of this memorandum, and any communications regarding any matters pertaining to this review should be addressed to the OMB Director. The OMB Director is also authorized to establish a process to review pending collections of information under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, as codified in chapter 35, title 44, United States Code, and to take actions that the OMB Director deems appropriate based on that review, consistent with applicable law. Should actions be identified that were undertaken before noon on January 20, 2025, that frustrate the purpose underlying this memorandum, I may modify or extend this memorandum, to require that department and agency heads consider taking steps to address those actions. The OMB Director is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register. This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose and Policy. On August 24, 2021, the Secretary of Defense mandated that all service members receive the COVID-19 vaccine. The Secretary of Defense later rescinded the mandate on January 10, 2023. The vaccine mandate was an unfair, overbroad, and completely unnecessary burden on our service members. Further, the military unjustly discharged those who refused the vaccine, regardless of the years of service given to our Nation, after failing to grant many of them an exemption that they should have received. Federal Government redress of any wrongful dismissals is overdue. Sec. 2. Redress. Consistent with the policies announced in section 1 of this order, the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, shall take all necessary action permitted by law to: (a) make reinstatement available to all members of the military (active and reserve) who were discharged solely for refusal to receive the COVID-19 vaccine and who request to be reinstated; (b) enable those service members reinstated under this section to revert to their former rank and receive full back pay, benefits, bonus payments, or compensation; and (c) allow any service members who provide a written and sworn attestation that they voluntarily left the service or allowed their service to lapse according to appropriate procedures, rather than be vaccinated under the vaccine mandate, to return to service with no impact on their service status, rank, or pay. Sec. 3. Additional Agency Responsibilities. (a) Nothing in this order precludes disciplinary or administrative action for conduct that is proscribed by chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (Uniform Code of Military Justice, 10 U.S.C. 801-946a). (b) Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall report to the President through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs on their progress in implementing this order. Sec. 4. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 27, 2025.
 REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP AFTER AIR FORCE ONE ARRIVAL Asheville Regional Airport Fletcher, North Carolina 11:07 A.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: Well, thank you very much. Everybody thought I was going to California. I said, “No, no. I’m stopping in North Carolina first, because they’ve been abused by what’s happened.” I mean, it’s terrible. It should have been done. It should have been — a lot of things should have happened that didn’t happen. So, we’re here. We’re going to fix it out. We’re working with the gentleman behind me, and you know who they are. And we’re going to fix it, and we’re going to fix it as fast as you can. It’s a massive amount of damage. FEMA has really let us down, let the country down. And I don’t know if that’s Biden’s fault or whose fault it is, but we’re going to take over, and we’re going to do a good job. We’re going to assign Mr. Whatley — who’s fantastic, frankly — and the governor and everybody else that’s going to work. We’re going to supply the money — we’ll supply a lot of the money. Maybe you have to chip in something — you’ll chip in a little something, like — GOVERNOR STEIN: We will. THE PRESIDENT: — maybe 25 percent or whatever. But we’re going to get it done as quickly as we can, and we want to take care of the people of North Carolina. It’s so interesting. Everybody is talking about California, and that’s a mess. But I said, “I’m not going to California until I stop in North Carolina.” So, here we are. We’re going to go visit the site, and we’re going to work with probably three of the congressmen — Republican congressmen — who’ve been fantastic — whose areas have been affected, and with Michael Whatley, the governor, and whoever else is — you know, we decide to get involved. Probably less FEMA, because FEMA just hasn’t done the job. And we’re looking at the whole concept of FEMA. I like, frankly, the concept: When North Carolina gets hit, the governor takes care of it. When Florida gets hit, the governor takes care of it, meaning the state takes care of it. To have a group of people come in from an area that don’t even know where they’re going in order to solve immediately a problem is something that never worked for me. But this is probably one of the best examples of it not working. And there’s been some others, like in Louisiana, et cetera. So, we’re going to be doing something on FEMA that I think most people agree. I’d like to see the states take care of disasters. Let the state take care of the tornadoes and the hurricanes and all of the other things that happen. And I think you’re going to find it a lot less expensive. You’ll do it for less than half, and you’re going to get a lot quicker response. So, that seems to be the recommendation, but we’ll be making that recommendation over the next couple of weeks. We’re going to go to the site now, and we’re going to figure out a plan — a plan for really demolition and cleaning, because not a lot has been done. And we’re very disappointed in the Biden administration, but we’re going to make up for lost time. And I said I’d do that, and this is about the earliest we could possibly be here, and we’re honored to be here. This has been a great state. They’re great people, and they’ve really been mishandled. But it’s all — this group is going to be great, and we’re going to get it taken care of. Any questions? Q How — how will you respond — Q How will you make those changes to FEMA? Do you do you expect to ask Congress for additional aid for North Carolina and California? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, it will be direct. In other words, the aid will go through us. So, rather than going through FEMA, it will go through us. And I think maybe this is a good place to start, because — and in all fairness to the governor, in all fairness to everybody else, FEMA was not on the ball, and we’re going to turn it all around. Yes. Q A lot — a lot of Americans think that this is symbolic of what your campaign was all about: America first, putting your prior- — priorities to Americans, even going to California, where their policies might mo- — have been one of the biggest reasons why they’ve had these problems. But you’re putting the American people first. Your thoughts on that? THE PRESIDENT: We are. We’re puttin- — thank you. I like that question. Boy, I want more questions like that. That’s even a statement. Thank you very much. Q Thank you. THE PRESIDENT: He’s a good man, that guy, and he’s also a very professional reporter, I have to say. Thank you very much. Q You’re welcome. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, we’re putting America first. We’re putting, in this case, North Carolina and California — we’re going to do a good job in California. That is a disaster like — I don’t know if we’ve ever seen anything like it, frankly. They say “the biggest in the history of California.” I think — has anything bigger than that happened in the whole country ever? It looks like — I don’t want to say what it looks like, but you know what I’m going to say. It looks like something hit it. Q Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: And we won’t talk about what hit it, but it is a bad, bad situation. And I guess I’m going to meet with some government officials, but, I mean, much more importantly — and in California, just to revert to it for a second, millions of gallons of water are waiting to be poured down through already the half pipes that are already built. I mean, they’ve been up for 40 years. And about 20 years ago, they turned off the water. And it’s the water that comes from the Pacific Northwest — some of it comes out of Canada — and it flows there, and it probably has flowed there for a million years. And they turned it off, and they route out to the Pacific. And in the meantime, you don’t have water in the hydrants. You don’t have water in the sprinkler systems. It’s the craziest thing I’ve ever seen. And everyone’s trying to figure out: Why aren’t they turning it back? They say it’s the delta smelt — it’s a fish — but I find that hard to believe. But we’ll — Q Mr. President, what you are — THE PRESIDENT: — figure it out. And without — and without doing that, you’re going to continue to have problems. Q Mr. President, what are you prepared to do, sir, if OPEC doesn’t respond to your call to cut oil prices? THE PRESIDENT: Well, we want to see OPEC cut the price of oil, and that will automatically stop the tragedy that’s taking place in Ukraine. It’s a butchering tragedy for both sides, by the way. A tremendous number of Russian soldiers are dead; a tremendous number of Ukrainian soldiers, and a lot of people are dead from the bombing of the cities. But right now, it’s just bullets whacking and hitting men — mostly men — almost in all cases, men. And they’re — over a million men are killed, and they’re lo- — they’re losing thousands of people a week. It’s crazy. It’s a crazy war, and it never would have happened if I was president. Would never have happened. This is crazy that it happened, but we want to stop it. Now, one way to stop it quickly is for OPEC to stop making so much money and to drop the price of oil, because they have it nice and high. And if you have it high, that war is not going to end so easily. So, OPEC ought to get on the ball, and they ought to drop the price of oil, and that war will stop right away. Q Will you withhold funding to Los Angeles because of its sanctuary city policy? THE PRESIDENT: I want to see two things in Los Angeles: Voter ID, so that the people have a chance to vote, and I want to see the water be released and come down into Los Angeles and throughout the state. Those are the two things. After that, I will be the greatest president that California have ever — has ever seen. Q Will there — THE PRESIDENT: I want the water to come down and come down to Los Angeles and also go out to all the farmland that’s barren and dry. You know, they have land that they say is the equivalent of the land in Iowa, which is about as good as there is anywhere on Earth. The problem is it’s artificial, because they artificially stop the water from going on to the land. So, I want two things. I want voter ID for the people of California, and they all want it. Right now, you have no — you don’t have voter ID. People want to have voter identification. You want to have proof of citizenship. Ideally, you have one-day voting, but I just want voter ID as a start. And I want the water to be released, and they’re going to get a lot of help from the U.S. Thank you very much. I’ll see you in a little while. Q Will there be (inaudible) — THE PRESIDENT: We’ll see you at the site. Q Will there — Q Thank you, sir. THE PRESIDENT: We’ll see you at the site. Q Can you tell us more about the deportation flights? Where are they going from? Where — THE PRESIDENT: It’s going very well. Q — are they going to? THE PRESIDENT: Deportation is going very well. We’re getting the bad, hard criminals out. These are murderers. These are people that have been as bad as you get, as bad as anybody you’ve seen. We’re taking them out first. Thank you. END 11:15 A.M. EST 
Palm Beach International Airport West Palm Beach, Florida (February 16, 2025) 4:00 P.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: So, Daytona was fantastic. The crowd was amazing. The people love that sport, and they’re wonderful people that run it. And they had a little rain delay, but we’ll go home and watch it, I guess — or some of you will. And others will try and create peace throughout the world. Do you have any questions, please? Q Sir, did you speak to Secretary Rubio this morning? THE PRESIDENT: I did. Q What is the latest with the negotiations in Saudi Arabia? What’s he taki- — THE PRESIDENT: We’re moving along. We’re trying to get a peace with Russia-Ukraine, and we’re working very hard on it. It’s a war that should have never started. Q Do you expect Zelenskyy to be involved in these conversations? What will his role be? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, I do. I do. He will be involved, yes. Q Mr. President, would you allow the Europeans to buy U.S.-made weapons for Ukrainians? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, I would. Q Sir, Zelenskyy said today that Russia is going to wage war on NATO. Do you — do you agree with that? Do you have any concerns about — THE PRESIDENT: No, I don’t agree. I don’t agree with that. Not even a little bit. Q Vice President Vance said that the United States would potentially take military action against Russia if they won’t come to an agreement. Do you agree with that stance? THE PRESIDENT: I don’t know if that’s what he said. I don’t think he said that. Q Sir, based on your conversations — based on your conversations with President Putin, what do you think he wants, ultimately, in Ukraine? THE PRESIDENT: I think he wants to stop fighting. I see that. We spoke long and hard. Steve Witkoff was with him for a very extended period, like about three hours. I think he wants to stop fighting. They have a big, powerful machine. You understand that. And they defeated Hitler, and they defeated Napoleon. You know, they’ve been fighting a long time. They’ve done it before and — but I think he would like to stop fighting. Q Do you think he wants the whole of Ukraine, or just a pa- — like, what do you think he wants in terms territory? THE PRESIDENT: No, I think he wants to stop. That was my question to him. Because if he’s going to go on, that would have been a big problem for us, and that would have caused me a big problem, because you just can’t let that happen. I think he wants to end it, and they want to end it fast — both of them. And Zelenskyy wants to end it too. Q Sir, when do you think that could actually happen? When do you think the fighting can stop? THE PRESIDENT: Well, we’re working to get it done. I mean, you know, it’s too bad it started. It would have been a lot easier to end it before it started. Right? But it started because we had an incompetent president that — he didn’t know what he was doing. That should have never started. That war was so easy to stop. Remember this: that under Bush, they took a lot. Under Obama, they took a lot. Under Biden, they’re trying to take the whole thing. And under Trump, they took nothing — nothing. Nothing was gone, not even a little bit. So, it’s too bad. It’s really too bad. A lot of people are dead right now that should be alive, and a lot of cities are destroyed that can never come back like they were. Those beautiful golden domes and all of the multi-colored domes that were 1,000 years old, they’re all laying in — you know, just shattered. So, it’s very sad. They ruined a culture. Q They’re beginning phase two — they’re beginning phase two of the ceasefire deal — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q — between Israel and Hama- — Hamas. What is — what’s going on there? Have you been briefed on the latest relating to that? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I told you — I have been briefed. I told Bibi, “You do whatever you want.” Because, you know, my statement was, “They got to come back now.” The reason I made that statement: because they said they weren’t going to deliver — they were not going to deliver the people that they said they were going to deliver, that they agreed to deliver. And they did agree to do that, but they broke that agreement. When I made the statement, they delivered everybody, plus an American. Now, the good news is, they look like they’re in pretty good shape, because the people from the week before didn’t look like they were in good shape. They looked like Holocaust survivors, frankly — horrible. Whatever happened to them was horrible. But that will be up to Israel what the next step is, in consultation with me. Q Sir, what would the — what are they supposed to use these weapons for that you’ve now allowed to be shipped? Given the fact that there’s a ceasefire supposed to be in effect, why ship those big bombs now? THE PRESIDENT: Peace through strength. You understand that, right? It’s called peace through strength. You know, they contracted for those weapons a long time ago, in the Biden administration, and then Biden wouldn’t deliver the weapons. But I look at it differently. I say “peace through strength.” They were sitting there. Nobody knew what to do with them. They bought them. But I believe in that very strongly. Q On the EU — Q Sir, do you have an update on your — Q Sir, on the EU. The — the European Union is talking about banning food imports from the U.S., kind of along the lines of your reciprocal tariffs. THE PRESIDENT: Why is that? Why? Q They says it’s like the reciprocal tariffs. They don’t like the (inaudible) — THE PRESIDENT: That’s all right. I don’t mind. Let them do it. Let them do it. They’re just hurting themselves if they do that. I can’t imagine it, but doesn’t matter. We’re having reciprocal tariffs. Whatever they charge, we charge. Very simple. If a certain country, like India, which is very high tariff — if they charge us X dollars, we charge them X dollars. It’s all right. It’s a fair — it’s a fair thing to do. Even the media said it was fair. And it’s going to be very good for the United States. Q Do you have an update on your timing of your meeting with Putin in Saudi Arabia? THE PRESIDENT: No, we — there’s no time set, but it could be very soon. Q Like this — this month or — THE PRESIDENT: Well, it’ll be soon. We’ll see what happens. But they’re meeting right now, and that’s more — I mean, this should have been done four years ago — three years ago, before it started. But it should have been done immediately after it started, as opposed to now, three years later. Q Sir, egg prices have reached an all-time high. What’s your administra- — THE PRESIDENT: Which is? What? Q Egg prices have reached an all-time high. THE PRESIDENT: Well, there’s the flu. And it was a long — before I ever got here, it was at an all-time — this didn’t st- — remember, I’ve been here for three weeks. And when you saw the inflation numbers, I’ve been here for three weeks. I have had nothing to do with inflation. This was caused by Biden. I had four years of virtually no inflation. So, I’m just taking over. But I’ll tell you what, this country has made more progress in the last three weeks than it’s made in the last four years, and we’re respected again as a country. Thank you very much. Thank you. END 4:07 P.M. EST
Mar-a-Lago Palm Beach, Florida (February 18, 2025) 4:13 P.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: I want to thank some of the great people from the Palm Beach County Sheriff’s Office. They’re here to take photographs, and it’s my honor to do so. Also, the fire department, the great firefighters. So, they’re here throughout the room, and I want to thank you very much for being here. I’ll be with you in a little while. We’ll do some great photos. We have plenty of time. Policemen, policewomen, and firemen, firewomen — they’re here, and we appreciate it very much. You’ve done a fantastic job. Oh, I think it’s very important to state that incredible things are happening in our country. I think we’ve made more progress in three weeks than they’ve made in four years, especially with respect to the reputation of our country, and people are respecting us again as a country and as a powerful country and maybe a smart country. But maybe not so smart, because when you look at some of the waste, fraud, and abuse that’s being inco- — uncovered by DOGE and the people at DOGE — these are young — often young but super brilliant people, incredible computer scientists and other things. And they’re finding levels of fraud and waste and abuse like, I think, nobody ever thought possible. But before we do that, I just want to ask Will to come over. We’ve — I’ve just finished signing some executive orders. And if we could start with that, Will, you might want to come up here and just explain what we did. Thank you. MR. SCHARF: Good afternoon, y’all. A short while ago, President Trump signed three — three items. The first is an executive order relating to the affordability and availability of in vitro fertilization and other fertility treatments. These are treatments that have become unaffordable for many Americans or have been unaffordable for many Americans. And the executive order is a directive to the Domestic Policy Council to examine ways to make IVF and other fertility treatments more affordable for more Americans. The second item that we signed was a presidential memorandum imposing radical transparency requirements on government departments and agencies in keeping with President Trump and the administration’s broader commitment to governmental transparency. What this presidential memorandum would do is require — as waste, fraud, and abuse is uncovered, as programs are canceled, and, ultimately, as taxpayer dollars are saved, this presidential memorandum would require departments and agencies to make all of the details of that freely available to the public. Lastly, we have another executive order that President Trump signed relating to independent agencies. This executive order would establish important oversight functions in the Office of Management and Budget and its subsidiary office, OIRA, supervising independent agencies and many of their actions and also reestablishes the long-standing norm that only the president or the attorney general can speak for the United States when stating an opinion as to what the law is. THE PRESIDENT: All right. Thank you very much, Will. That was the primary purpose of this conference to explain that they are all very important in their own way. Fertilization — I’ve been saying that we’re going to do what we have to do, and I think the women — and families, husbands — are very appreciative of it. But that was it. I do want to say while I’m up here, I’ve been contacted by some of the biggest companies in the world, and because of what we’re doing economically and through tariffs and taxes and incentives, they want to come back into the United States. And we’ll be announcing various very large companies — the biggest, actually. And they’ll be coming back, having to do with chips and having to do also with cars and lots of other things. We’re going to be announcing some very, very big — very big — momentous, I think — momentous decisions are being made by companies all around the world — the biggest — and they want to come back into the U.S. Car plants are being canceled in other locations now because they want to build them here. And you read about a couple — not that I want to mention names or anything — but you read about a couple of big ones in Mexico just got canceled because they’re going to be building them in the United States. And that’s very simply because of what we’re doing with respect to taxes, tariffs, and incentives. And I think it’s a very important thing. And you’ll be seeing this over the next — probably over the next two years, to be honest, but you’re going to see a lot of it over the next couple of weeks. A lot of big ones are be — going to be announcing. And so, while we’re here, I guess we can take a couple of quick questions. Go ahead, please. Please. Q Mr. President, have you decided specifically what the auto tariff rate should be? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, I probably will tell you that in — on April 2nd, but it’ll be in the neighborhood of 25 percent. Q And what about semiconductors and pharmaceuticals? THE PRESIDENT: It’ll be 25 percent and higher, and it’ll go very substantially higher over a course of a year. But we want to give them time to come in, because, as you know, when they come into the United States and they have their plant or factory here, there is no tariff. So, we want to give them a little bit of a chance. Yes, thank you. Q Just following up on that. The EU — I’m sorry. Andrea Shalal. The EU representative is going to be here in Washington next week — I’m sorry, tomorrow. He’s going to be meeting with Hassett and Greer and Lutnick. What can the EU do to sort of avoid the reciprocal tariffs that you’ve talked about? And, you know, you’ve talked a lot about the VAT. Do you expect them to reduce that? THE PRESIDENT: Well, they did already, as I understand it, reduce their car tariff all the way down to what we have. And a lot of that will take place, and I think some won’t do it and some will do it. But the EU had a 10 percent tax on cars, and now they have a 2.5 percent tax, which is the exact same as us. So, already we’ve saved a tremendous amount. That would be great — if everybody would do that, then we’d all be on the same playing field. Because essentially, what we’re doing with the tariffs is, you know, they charge us, we charge them. Same amount. And it’s called reciprocal, actually, and whatever they charge us, we’re charging them. And so, the EU is — you know, I appreciate that they did this, but, you know, the EU has been very unfair to us. We have a deficit of $350 billion. They don’t take our cars. They don’t take our farm products. They don’t take almost anything. They take very little. And we’re going to have to straighten that out, and we will. I have no doubt about it. Yeah, go ahead, please. Q Thanks. Thank you, Mr. President. Can you tell us a little bit more about the Russia talks, your impression of — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q — how they went today — THE PRESIDENT: Sure. Q — and if you’re perhaps more confident or less confident of a deal after what happened today? THE PRESIDENT: Well, much more confident. They were very good. Russia wants to do something. They want to stop the savage barbarianism. I mean, what’s going on over there, it’s — soldiers are being killed by the thousands on a weekly basis. It’s ridiculous. And they’re not American soldiers. They’re Russian soldiers and they’re Ukrainian soldiers, largely, although a lot of Koreans have been killed, as you know — quite a bit of them have been killed. They came over to fight, and a large portion have been wiped out. But we want to end it. It was — it’s a senseless war. It should have never happened. It would have never happened if I was president. And it’s a shame to see it. And I see pictures that you don’t see, but I see pictures of fields that look hor- — just horrible. It looks like Gettysburg. If you see the old pictures of Gettysburg, it’s soldiers lying all over the field, body parts all over the field. They’re all dead. And this is going on on a — on a daily basis. It’s a horrible thing. Both Russia and Ukraine — they’re losing thousands and thousands of soldiers, and a lot of people have been killed too. I think that’s one of the things that’ll — you’ll see historically and you’ll see later on as it goes along. I think people are going to be surprised at how many people, not only soldiers, have been killed in Ukraine. A lot more people than you think. Yeah, please. Q President Trump, as part of a peace deal with Putin, would you be willing to consider removing all American troops from Europe? THE PRESIDENT: Well, nobody has asked me to do that, so I don’t think we’d have to do that. I wouldn’t want to do that. But that question has never really come up. Q Sir — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Please. Q Sir, do you support stationing European peacekeeping troops in Ukraine as part of this peace deal? THE PRESIDENT: If they want to do that, that’s great. I’m — I’m all for it. If they want to do that, I think that’s — that’d be fine. Q Even if the Russians are opposed — THE PRESIDENT: I mean, I know France has mentioned it, others have mentioned it. Q Even if the Russians are — THE PRESIDENT: UK has mentioned it. But yeah, if — well, if we have a peace deal, I think having troops over there for — from the standpoint of Europe — we won’t have to put any over there, because, you know, we’re very far away, but having troops over there would be fine. I would not object to it at all. We’re talking about this now: peace. We have either a ceasefire or a peace itself, and we’re looking to do both. Would start off with the ceasefire. And if they want to do that — I know France was willing to do that, and I thought that was a beautiful gesture. Yeah, please. Q Sir, do you have any message for Ukrainians who, after three years of fighting, might feel betrayed or disappointed at not having a seat at these initial talks in Saudi Arabia? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I think I’m really disappointed in what’s happened. I’ve been watching this for three years. It’s a war that would have never happened if I was president. And I’ve been watching these — these, you know, people being killed at levels that you’ve rarely seen — not — not even close since the Second World War, and I’m very disappointed. I hear that, you know, they’re upset about not having a seat. Well, they’ve had a seat for three years and a long time before that. This could have been settled very easily. Just a half — a half-baked negotiator could have settled this years ago without — I think, without the loss of much land, very little land; without the loss of any lives; and without the loss of cities that are just laying on their sides. You have those magnificent golden domes that are shattered, will never be replaced. You can’t replace them. Thousand-year-old domes that are so beautiful. You can’t replace that. A whole civilization has changed because of what — So, when they’re worried about not being seated, you mean somebody that should have gone in and made a deal a long time ago. You could have made a deal. This is one that could have made a deal. There was no talk of this during the Trump administration. Putin would have never, ever done it. And, by the way, we wouldn’t have had October 7th. You know that. We wouldn’t have had October 7th either in Israel, and we wouldn’t have that mess that’s going on over there. It’s like you — we have great fire people here. We’re putting out fires. All over the world, we’re putting out fires. So, that wouldn’t have happened. And you know what else wouldn’t have happened? Inflation, because it was caused, really, by the cost of energy going through the roof because of their bad energy policies, and — and also their spending — their terrible spending, wasteful spending on the Green New Scam. It’s a scam. It’s a whole big scam. Yeah, please. Q Yes, sir. I want to ask you a little closer to home. What would it take for you to reconsider the restrictions on the Associated Press? And secondly, some of your advisers are concerned with the Associated Press’s style guide, using language and giving guidance to not use words like “illegal immigrant” or to use phrases like “gender-affirming care,” and they’re concerned about that being an encroaching amount of liberalism in the way in which the press writes about things. Do you share those concerns? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I do think that some of the phrases that they want to use are ridiculous, and I think, frankly, they’ve become obsolete, especially in the last three weeks, because many things have happened in the last three weeks. And I didn’t know about that, but I would say that if they want to use certain phrases like that — and I guess some are okay, but many aren’t. But the Associated Press just refuses to go with what the law is and what has taken place. It’s called the Gulf of America now. It’s not called the Gulf of Mexico any longer. I have the right to do it, just like we have the right to do Mount McKinley, and nobody is even challenging that. But only the Associate- — essentially, it’s primarily the Associated Press, and I don’t know what they’re doing, but I just say that we’re going to keep them out until such time as they agree that it’s the Gulf of America. We’re very proud of this country, and we want it to be the Gulf of America. Now, the Associated Press, as you know, has been very, very wrong on the election, on Trump, and the treatment of Trump, and other things having to do with Trump and Republicans and conservatives. And they’re doing us no favors, and I guess I’m not doing them any favors. That’s the way life works. But, you know, thank you for the question. Who are you with? Q Axios, sir. THE PRESIDENT: It’s a very good question. (Laughs.) Thank you. Yes. Q Thank you, Mr. President. We’re hearing that Russia wants to force Ukraine to hold new elections in order to sign any kind of a peace deal. Is that something that the U.S. would ever support? THE PRESIDENT: Well, we have a situation where we haven’t had elections in Ukraine; where we have martial law — essentially martial law in Ukraine; where the leader in Ukraine — I mean, I hate to say it, but he’s down at 4 percent approval rating; and where a country has been blown to smithereens. You got — most of the cities are laying on their sides. The buildings are collapsed. It looks like a massive demolition site. The whole — I mean, so many of the cities — I mean, they haven’t done it in Kyiv, because I guess they don’t want to shoot too many rockets in there. They’ve done it 20 percent, but they haven’t done it 100 percent. If they wanted to do it 100 percent, it would probably happen very quickly. But you have cities that are absolutely decimated. And yeah, I would say that, you know, when they want a seat at the table, you could say, the people have to — wouldn’t the people of Ukraine have to say, like, you know, “It’s been a long time since we’ve had an election”? That’s not a Russia thing. That’s something coming from me and coming from many other countries also. Q Would you be concerned about Russia putting up a puppet — THE PRESIDENT: You know, Ukraine is being just — just wiped out. Look at what’s happening to the cities. That — there are cities, there’s not even a building standing. It’s a massive — it’s — you talk about Gaza. I mean, it’s — literally, these cities look like Gaza. Actually, many have, percentage-wise, more buildings knocked down than in Gaza. So, you know, people are tired of it. People want to see something happen. And, you know, the other thing that — it’s been bothering me for a long time, because I di- — I solved the problem with NATO. They paid hundreds of billions of dollars into the funds of NATO when I said, “You got to pay,” because the United States was paying for European countries, and then they take advantage of us on trade. But I’ve seen it. Look, we have to — they have to pay. They have to find out, where is the money going to? We have — I believe President Zelenskyy said last week that he doesn’t know where half of the money is that we gave him. Well, we gave them, I believe, $350 billion, but let’s say it’s something less than that. But it’s a — it’s a lot. And we have to equalize with Europe, because Europe has given us a — given a very much smaller percentage than that. I think Europe has given 100 billion, and we’ve given, let’s say, 300-plus, and it’s more important for them than it is for us. We have an ocean in between, and they don’t. But where is all the money that’s been given? Where is it going? And nobody — I’ve never seen an accounting of it. We give hundreds of billions of dollars. I have — I don’t see any — any accounting. So, I want to see peace. Look, you know why I want? Because I don’t want all these people killed anymore. I’m looking at people that are being killed, and they’re Russian and Ukrainian people, but they’re people — doesn’t matter where they’re from on — on the whole planet. And I think I have the power to end this war, and I think it’s going very well. But today, I heard, “Oh, well, we weren’t invited.” Well, you’ve been there for three years. You should have ended it three years — you should have never started it. You could have made a deal. I could have made a deal for Ukraine that would have given them almost all of the land — everything — almost all of the land, and no people would have been killed, and no city would have been demolished, and not one dome would have been knocked down. But they chose not to do it that way. And President Biden, in all fairness, he doesn’t have a clue. What he — he was so bad for this. He was so bad, so pathetic, and so sad. But with all of that being said, look, we — it is what it is. When I left, there was no chance that this could have happened, but it happened because we had incompetent leadership at many different levels. But when you see what’s taken place in Ukraine, with millions of people killed, including the soldiers — millions of people killed, a big percentage of their cities knocked down to the ground. I don’t know how anybody even lives there. You know, when they say they took a poll and Zelenskyy is at 4 percent, who’s living there? You know, I mean, people are — it’s hard to believe that people live there. Their cities are being knocked down. And this is something that would have never happened. And, by the way, for four years, it didn’t happen. It was never going to happen. Go ahead. Q Can I ask one follow-up question? How would you counter the perception — because Russia is pushing for this, obviously; they don’t really hold true elections — that that would be a capitulation of some sort? How would you guard against, potentially, Russia installing a puppet government? And then, finally, how would that new election have an impact on getting Zelenskyy to sign the rare earth minerals deal? THE PRESIDENT: Look, you have leadership — and — and I like him personally. He’s fine. But I don’t care about personally. I care about getting the job done. You have leadership now that’s allowed a war to go on that should have never even happened, even without the United States. Look, we had a president who was grossly incompetent. He had no idea what he was doing. He said some very stupid things, like going in for portions and all of the things. He made a lot of bad statements. But he’s grossly incompetent, and I think everyone knew that. This is something that should have never happened — would have never happened. And I used to discuss it with Putin. President Putin and I would talk about Ukraine. It was the apple of his eye, I will tell you that. But he never — there was never a chance of him going in. And I told him, “You better not go in. Don’t go in. Don’t go in.” And he understood that, and he understood it fully. But I’m only interested — I want to see if I can save maybe millions of lives. This could even end up in a World War III, I mean, to be honest with you. You’ve been hearing — now Europe is saying, “Well, I think we’re going to go in and we’re going to go….” All of a sudden, you’re going to end up in World War III over something that should have never happened. And, you know, it’s a — it’s a very sad situation. Yeah, please. Q Mr. President, in a court filing, the White House said that Elon Musk is not a DOGE employee and has no authority to make decisions. Can you clarify for us today — THE PRESIDENT: Well, Elon Musk — Q — what his exact role is there? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, yeah. Elon is, to me, a patriot. So, you know, you could call him an employee. You could call him a consultant. You could call him whatever you want. But he’s a patriot. I mean, look at the kind of things — I just said, “Just write it down, just in case that question got asked.” Right? And which — I’m surprised it took so long, actually. But you know what? Ukraine is a bigger deal, because people are dying by the thousands a week — thousands. But look at this. From 90 to 99, Social Security: 6,054,000 people. Well, that’s okay. Maybe that’s possible. You know, 90 to ninety- — 99. Maybe it’s possible. It’s a lot of people, though, with that. But people that live to 100 to 109: 4,734,000. Wow, that’s a lot. That means over 100 years old. There are 4 million people. I don’t know — I don’t know too many. I know people that are doing great in their 90s, but not too many people over 100. But over 120 — from 120 years old — people that are 120 years old, up to 129: 3,472,000 people. Wow. You know that can’t possibly be because the record is like — I think it’s one person — a woman lived to 127. But they have 3,472-. Okay. But now we’re going really in. People from 130 years old to 139 years old: 3,936,000. Wow. I wonder if people are getting paid with all this. I mean, are these checks — and that’s what we’re checking right now. People from 140 years old to 149 years old: 3,542,000. A hundred and forty years old and beyond. Now — now we’re really going because we’re looking to break the record by 25 years. People from 150 years old to 159 years old: 1,345,000. These are in the — by the way, these are in the computer files. These are — this is what they do well. They’re super — I asked Elon, “Who are these DOGE people?” He said they’re super brilliant computer people and they love the country. It’s simple. Q Does he — THE PRESIDENT: Wait a minute. People from 160 years old to 169 years: 121,000. So, 160-year-old people. A hundred and seventy to a hundred and seventy-nine thousand: six thousand oh-eighty-seven. But now let’s go into the real numbers. From 200 to 209 years old: 879 people. From 210 years old — I haven’t met any of them. And if I did, I’d — I would bless them. I would — I would worship the ground they walk on. Two hundred and ten to two hundred and nineteen years: eight hundred and sixty-six. From 220 years old to 229 years old: 1,039. And then, you have two people — from 240 years old to 249 years old: one person. And there’s one person that’s 360 years old. That’s just that. And then, where’s the money being spent? Right? Let’s go into that for just a second. Five hundred and twenty million dollars for a consultant on the environment. It’s called Environmental, Social, and Governance, investments in Africa and mobilize private-sector resources: $520 million. Somebody got $520 million for an environmental — sounds like an environmental study. That’s the most — I’ve always been one that paid a lot of money for my environmental studies, but they — you know, I paid like $50,000 not $520 million. Five hundred and twenty million dollars for ESG. Twenty-five million dollars to promote biodiversity, conservation, and promote licit livelihoods by developing socially responsible behavior in the country of Colombia. Well, that’s nice. Twenty-five million going to Colombia for something that nobody ever heard of. Forty million dollars to improve the social and economic inclusion of sedentary migrants. Forty million. Forty-two million dollars for Johns Hopkins — great place — to research and drive social and behavior change in Uganda. Forty-two million. What about us? What about social change in our country? Seventy million dollars for a center at Purdue to research university-sourced, evidence-based solutions to developmental challenges. I mean, these are massive numbers on things that nobody ever heard about. Ten million dollars for Mozambique voluntary medical male circumcisions. Ten million dollars for circumcisions in another country. $9.7 million for UC Berkeley to develop a cohort of Cambodian youth with enterprise-driven skills. In other words, let’s teach them something about enterprise. What about our people? Can’t we teach them about enterprise? $2.3 million for strengthening independent voices in Cambodia. Thirty-two million dollars to the Prague Civil Society Centre, which is a very liberal group of people. I wonder how much of that money came back to the people that approved it. Fourteen million dollars for improving public procurement in Serbia. Four hundred eighty-six million dollars to the Consortium for Elections and Political Process Strengthening, including twenty-two million dollars for inclusive and participatory political process in Moldova. And $21 million for voter turnout in India. Well, why are we giving $21 million to India? They got a lot of money. They’re the h- — one of the highest taxing countries in the world in terms of us. We can hardly get in there because their tariffs are so high. I have a lot of respect for India. I have a lot of respect for the prime minister. He just left, as you know, two days ago. But we’re giving $21 million for voter turnout. It’s voter turnout in India. What about, like, voter turnout here? Oh, we’ve done that, I guess. We did $500 million, didn’t we? It’s called the lockboxes. Q But closer to home — THE PRESIDENT: Twenty million dollars for fiscal federalism in Nepal. Listen to these numbers. These are — this is all fraud. Nineteen million dollars for biodiversity conservation in Nepal. $1.5 million for voter confidence — we want to give them confidence — in Liberia. Fourteen million dollars for social cohesion in Mali. $2.5 million for inclusive democracies in South Africa. Forty-seven million dollars for improving learning outcomes in Asia. Asia is doing very well. They’re doing a lot better than we do in the schools, aren’t they? Two million dollars to develop sustainable recycling models to increase socioeconomic cohesion among marginalized communities in Kosovo and Ashkali and in Egypt. We’re talking about hundreds of billions of dollars. I could — I could — by the way, I could read this all day long. I could go on all day long, and you’ll see hundreds of billions of dollars. And we’re doing it. But when I saw the Social Security numbers, I said, “Wow, that’s really something.” So, we have — let’s just go above 100 years old. We have millions and millions of people over 100 years old. Everybody knows that’s not so. We have a very corrupt country — a very corrupt country. And it’s a sad thing to say, but we’re figuring it out. Now, the good thing about Social Security and what I read is if you take all of those numbers off, because they’re obviously fraudulent or incompetent — but if you take all of those millions of people off Social Security, all of a sudden, we have a very powerful Social Security with people that are 80 and 70 and 90, but not 200 years old. You know, so it’s a very positive thing. How about over here? Yeah, please. Q Your reaction to Michelle King, the head, resigning after the DOGE investigation? THE PRESIDENT: Who resigned? Q The head of Social Security. THE PRESIDENT: I don’t know. I mean, I — resigned or got fired? I think got fired. You know, when you fire somebody, they always resign, and then they say, “We resigned.” But when you have numbers like that, I think, really, it’s “Got fired.” They have to get fired. Who would — who would keep them? How could you have numbers like this? Now, the big thing is, how many of these people got paid? Were they getting paid? Were they getting paid? How many of them were getting paid Social Security? Because that’s — if that’s the case, it’s a massive fraud. We’ll have to call those great Palm Beach police into this situation, right? You guys would figure that out very quickly. But how many of them are being paid? I mean, maybe millions of them, but it’s a total fraud. Also, a lot of illegal immigrants are on Social Security that shouldn’t be there. Yeah, please. Go ahead. Q Mr. President, there was a big wave of probationary federal workers who were fired over the weekend. Some of these workers focused on nuclear weapons security were immediately rehired. Do you have any concerns about how these terminations have played out? THE PRESIDENT: No, not at all. I think we have to just do what we have to do. It’s — you know, you’re going to — it’s amazing what’s been found right now. It’s amazing. Yeah, some — if we feel that — in some cases, they’ll fire people and then they’ll put some people back — not all of them, because a lot of people were let go. Don’t forget, I got elected on the basis of making our government stronger and smaller, because we have millions of people that — obviously, they’re paying millions of people that shouldn’t be paid. And that has also to do with workers. Yeah, please. No, go ahead. Axios, New York Times. Q Sorry. Mr. President, given your concerns about corruption, you said that if there were any conflicts of interest with Elon Musk, you wouldn’t — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q — let him anywhere near it. THE PRESIDENT: That’s right. Q DOGE and SpaceX employees are now working directly at the Federal Aviation Administration and the Defense Department — agencies that have billions of dollars in contracts with Musk’s companies, or that directly regulate — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q — his companies. How is that not a conflict of interest? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I mean, I’m just hearing about it, and if there is — and he told me before I told him, but obviously, I will not let there be any conflict of interest. He’s done an amazing job. They’ve revealed — in fact, he’s going to be on tonight a big show called “Sean Hannity” at 9 o’clock, and he’s on and I’m on, and we talk about a lot of different things. And any conflicts — I told Elon, any conflicts, you can’t have anything to do with that. So, anything to do with possibly even space, we won’t let Elon partake in that. Yeah. Please. Q On immigration, sir. You said you would be sending the worst of the worst to Guantanamo Bay. What we’re finding out is that there are a lot of low-risk migrants who don’t have a criminal background who are also being sent. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q Are you thinking about this differently now about who is being sent? THE PRESIDENT: No, they’re going to be brought back to their countries. And with some persuasion, every one of those countries — every one in the — as you know, every country is taking the people back. So, some of them are going to be brought back to — many of them — any of them that are low-risk, as you say, are going to be brought back to their countries. Q But why hold them in Guantanamo? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, go ahead, please. Q Can you give us a bit of an update on where you stand with Venezuela? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Sure. Q Its oil — there are — there is, basically, a monthly license that can soon ex- — extend to a six-month license. THE PRESIDENT: Well, you know, we had Venezuela on the run, and it looked like that was going to be very good. And when Biden came in, as he always does, he screws it up. And they started buying millions and millions and millions of dollars of oil — billions of dollars, actually, of oil. And it gave them a new lic- — a new, really, lease on life. And — but we’ll see. We had some pretty good discussions with a lot of people within our government — in the United States government that are involved in that. And Venezuela is a little bit early. But, you know, we were not buying from Venezuela. When Biden came in, for whatever reason, instead of just taking the beautiful, as I call it, liquid gold — we have more than anybody — they started paying a fortune to Venezuela. And we’re looking at that actually. Why did they do that? Why were they doing that? Why would they go to the enemy and give them billions and billions of dollars? Now, with that being said, as you know, Venezuela has said very strongly, they will not take any — any illegal immigrant, any of the people that they sent over to us. They sent their gangs, probably the worst gang anywhere in the world — as bad as MS-13, maybe worse — and they came out of the jails of Venezuela. They emptied their jails into our country, and they said, “We’ll never take them back.” Well, they took them back, and they’re taking them back, and they are taking them back rapidly. They were sending a lot of people to Venezuela. They said they wouldn’t take them back, and they are taking back. But we’re looking at Venezuela very seriously, and we’re going to be able — don’t forget, I’ve only been here for three weeks. Q If I could just a follow-up, if you don’t mind. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, please. Q Just a little clarity on: Are you inclined to continue to allow Venezuela, through, I think, Chevron and other oil companies, to export those petroleum products, or are you — THE PRESIDENT: Maybe not. Q — inclined to pullback on that? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, maybe not. We’re looking at that now. I just got here. When I was — when I left, they weren’t doing anything. They were ready to go, “We give up.” And then Biden came along, and he gave them — literally billions of dollars. I couldn’t believe it, actually. And we have so much under our feet — liquid gold. We have so much. And it was pretty amazing. So, we’re looking at the whole situation, why he did it. All right, how about one more? Yeah, please. Q Thank you, Mr. President. What can you tell us about the CIA drone flights over Mexico? Is this the next step in the war against the cartels? THE PRESIDENT: Well, we’re going to see. Q Should they have authority — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q — to take lethal action? THE PRESIDENT: Mexico has allowed a tremendous number of people to go through their country into ours, and even people coming from Mexico, and illegals — totally illegal. They’ve allowed people to empty jails into Mexico and then let them come through with this totally ridiculous open-border policy of the Biden administration. So, millions of people have come in, and hundreds of thousands and, actually, millions are criminals. They came in from jails all over the world that release them into Mexico, and they come into our country. And they also came in from Canada, by the way — large numbers through Canada. In fact, when — when we closed up the one border, they came in through the other border. So, Canada was — is not a — an uninterested party. But I will say this. We’re dealing with Mexico. I have a very good relationship with Mexico. But I think Mexico is largely run by the cartels, and that’s a sad thing to say. And if they wanted help with that, we’d give them help. But Mexico — if you look at what’s gone on with Mexico for years now, but now, especially, it’s run by the cartels. And they’ve allowed millions of people to come into our country from jails and prisons of other countries, from all over the world — not just South America — Africa, Asia, all over — a lot from the Congo in Africa — a lot. They opened their jails. They came in through Mexico, and we have some of the worst criminals coming in from the Congo and other places. So, it’s not just South America and it’s not just Venezuela. But they opened their jails. And, you know, the crime rates in Venezuela and other places all over the world has gone way down. You know why? Because they’ve given us their prisoners. They’ve — given us their drug lords and their gang members. And it’s hard to believe that we accepted this. It’s hard to believe that we allowed open borders, and we’re taking in, you know, hundreds of thousands and millions of people coming in from all over the world that are absolute stone-cold criminals. In fact, 11,088 murderers, and many of those people have co- — have murdered more than one person. Why are they giving us these people? And why are we taking these people? Under Biden, you know, you had a border czar that never went to the border — happened to be a vice president — never went to the border, never called the border people. I call them all the time. I speak to them all the time. But here’s the good news, we have the most secure border we’ve ever had right now — as secure and even more secure than I had it four years ago. And the Border Patrol is doing incredible. ICE is doing incredible. Tom Homan is unbelievable. And Kristi Noem has been just working very, very hard — very, very hard. And we have the best numbers we’ve ever had, and we’re going to keep it that way. And we’re going to find out how a thing like this could have happened to our country, because who would allow this to happen? What they’ve done to our country is so sad. Thank you very much. Thank you. Q Will you still be meeting with President Putin before the end of the month? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, probably. Probably. END 4:49 P.M. EST
THE WHITE HOUSE Office of Communications ________________________________________________________________ REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP AND PRIME MINISTER NARENDRA MODI OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA IN JOINT PRESS CONFERENCE East Room(February 13, 2025) 6:04 P.M. EST PRESIDENT TRUMP: Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Please. Great honor. I’m thrilled to welcome the Prime Minister of India, my friend, Narendra Modi back to the White House. We spent a lot of time here and a lot of time in India, and he’s a very special man. Prime Minister, it is a pleasure to extend to you the same hospitality that you showed Melania and myself when we traveled to your beautiful country five years ago. It’s hard to believe so long ago, and it seemed like yesterday. It was beautiful. We opened the cricket stadium — 129,000 seats, I think the largest stadium in the world, and it was an incredible period of time. There is truly a special bond between the United States and India and the world’s oldest democracy and the world’s largest democracy and, I believe, the world’s largest country, in terms of the numbers of people. And today, the prime minister and I are announcing a framework to strengthen those ties even further economically, and the U.S.-India compact for the 21st century is a historic initiative that will deepen every aspect of our partnership and our friendship. Starting this year, we’ll be increasing military sales to India by many billions of dollars. We’re also paving the way to ultimately provide India with the F-35 stealth fighters. In 2017, my administration revived and reinvigorated the Quad security partnership. In our meeting today, the prime minister and I reaffirmed that strong cooperation among the United States, India, Australia, and Japan, and it’s crucial really to maintaining peace and prosperity, tranquility even, in the Indo-Pacific. In addition, the United States and India will be working together like never before to confront the threat of radical Islamic terrorism, a threat all over the world actually. Today, I’m pleased to announce that my administration has approved the extradition of one of the plotters and one of the very evil people of the world and having to do with the horrific 2008 Mumbai terrorist attack to face justice in India. So, he’s going to be going back to India to face justice. As we deepen our defense partnership, we’ll also strengthen our economic ties and bring greater fairness and reciprocity to our trading relationship. As a signal of good faith, Prime Minister Modi recently announced the reductions to India’s unfair, very strong tariffs that limit U.S. access into the Indian market very strongly. And really, it’s big problem, I must say. India imposes a 30 to 40 to 60 and even 70 percent tariff on so many of the goods and, in some cases, far more than that. As an example, a 70 percent tariff on U.S. cars going into India, which makes it pretty much impossible to sell those cars. Today, the U.S. trade deficit with India is almost $100 billion, and Prime Minister Modi and I have agreed that we’ll begin negotiations to address the long-running disparities that should have been taken care of over the last four years — but they didn’t do that — in the U.S.-India trading relationship, with the goal of signing an agreement. And we want — really, we want a certain level playing field, which we really think we’re entitled to, and he does also, in fairness, so we’re going to work on that very hard. And we can make up the difference very easily with the deficit with the sale of oil and gas and LNG, of which we have more than anybody in the world. The prime minister and I also reached an important agreement on energy that will restore the United States as a leading supplier of oil and gas to India. It will be, hopefully, their number-one supplier in the groundbreaking development for U.S. nuclear industry. India is also reforming its laws to welcome U.S. nuclear technology, which is at the highest level, into the Indian market. This will bring safe, clean, and affordable electricity to millions of Indians and tens of billions of dollars to the U.S.-civilian nuclear industry in India. And under the framework we are announcing today, the United States and India are also joining forces to ensure that artificial intelligence and other advanced technologies are developed by the two of the most — really, two of the most advanced nations, intellectually and otherwise technologically, anywhere in the world. There’s nobody very much closer. We have an incredible relationship there. And this is where it seems to be heading. And artificial intelligence — complex — a very complex subject, but it seems to be where people want to be and they want to go, and we’re leading right now by a lot, but other people will try to catch us. I don’t know if they’re going to be able to. We’re going to make it available. We’re going to make tremendous amounts of electricity available, and we’re going to let the people that are buying the electricity make their own electric plants — electric generation plants, and we’ve never done this in our country, but we’re going to get it done very quickly. Lee Zeldin and his group are going to get the approvals in very rapid form. And we’re calling it a “national emergency,” and that’s exactly what it is. So, we’re going to be — we’re going to remain at the top of the AI or artificial intelligence, I think, for a long time to come, and we’re going to be working very closely with India and other countries on that. But right now, we’re the leader by quite a bit. Finally, we agreed to work together to help build one of the greatest trade routes in all of history. It will run from India to Israel to Italy and onward to the United States, connecting our partners by ports, railways, and undersea cables — many, many undersea cables. It’s a big development. It’s a lot of money going to be spent, and we’ve already spent some, but we’re going to be spending a lot more in order to stay advanced and stay the leader. I’m pleased to report that with today’s announcements, the friendship between the United States and India is the strongest I believe it’s ever been. I think our relationship is the best it’s ever been between two leaders of the two countries, and it’s an honor to say that. I’d like to now invite the prime minister to say a few words, and then we’ll take some questions. And we appreciate you all being here. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. (Applause.) PRIME MINISTER MODI: (As interpreted.) Your Excellency President Trump, delegates of both countries, friends from the media: Namashkar. I would like to first of all express my heartfelt gratitude to my dear friend President Trump for the grand welcome and hospitality accorded to me. President Trump’s leadership has been instrumental in nurturing India-U.S. ties and making them vibrant. I could feel today the same enthusiasm, the same — the same enthusiasm, the same energy, the same commitment that we had worked with during our first term. Our discussions today highlighted our pride in our accomplishments during his first term, the deep mutual trust that we share, and also the resolve to attain new goals. We also agreed that the partnership and cooperation between India and the U.S. can shape a better world. Friends, the people of America are aware of President Trump’s motto, “Make America Great Again,” or “MAGA.” The people are well aware of it. The people of India too are focusing on both heritage and development as they move forward at a fast pace and with a firm resolve to ensure a developed India by 2047. If I were to say this, borrowing an expression from America, our vision for a developed India is to “Make India Great Again,” or “MIGA.” When America and India work together, that is when MAGA — when it’s MAGA plus MIGA, it becomes mega — a mega partnership for prosperity. (Applause.) And it is this mega spirit that gives new scale and scope to our objectives. Friends, today, we have also set ourselves the target of more than doubling our bilateral trade to attain $500 billion by 2030. Our teams will work on concluding very soon a mutually beneficial trade agreement. In order to ensure India’s energy security, we will focus on trade in oil and gas. Investment in energy infrastructure will also increase. In the area of nuclear energy, we also discussed increasing cooperation on small modular reactors. Friends, America plays an important role in India’s defense preparedness. As strategic and trusted partners, we are moving forward actively towards joint development, joint production, and transfer of technology. In the times to come as well, new technologies and equipment will enhance our capacities. We have decided to launch the autonomous systems industry alliance and a defense cooperation framework for the next decade will be prepared. Defense interoperability, logistics, repair, and maintenance will also be its key components. Friends, the 21st century is a technology-driven century. Close cooperation in the area of technology between countries that believe in democratic values can give new direction, strength, and opportunities to the entire humanity. India and the U.S. will jointly work in areas of artificial intelligence, semiconductors, quantum, biotechnology, and several other technologies. Today, we also agreed on TRUST, which stands for Transforming Relationships Utilizing Strategic Technology. Under this, our focus will be on establishing strong supply chains for critical minerals, advanced materials, and pharmaceuticals. We have also decided to launch a recovery and processing initiative for strategic minerals like lithium and rare earths. We have had close cooperation with the U.S. in the area of space. The NISAR satellite developed with mutual cooperation between Israel and NASA will soon be flying into space on an Indian launch vehicle. Friends, partnership between India and the U.S. strengthens democracy and strengthens democratic values and systems. We will work together to enhance peace, stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific. The Quad will play a special role in this. During the Quad summit scheduled to be held in India this year, we will expand cooperation in new areas with our partner countries. Under the IMEEC and I2U2, we will work together for the development of economic corridors. And in the area of connectivity, India and U.S. will stand strongly together in the fight against terrorism. We agree that in order to eliminate cross-border terrorism, we need concrete actions, and I’m very grateful to President Trump that he — in 2008, somebody who carried out genocide in India, that criminal is now going to be handed over to India, and I’m grateful to President Trump for this, and appropriate action will be taken in the courts in India. Friends, the Indian community living in the U.S. is an important link in our relations. In order to further deepen our people-to-people ties, India will soon open new consulates in Los Angeles and Boston. These will be new consulates. We have invited American universities and educational institutes to open their offshore campuses in India. President Trump, I am grateful to you for your friendship and strong commitment towards India. The people of India still fondly remember your visit in 2020 and hope that President Trump will come and visit them again. On behalf of 1.4 billion Indians, I invite you to visit India. Thank you. Thank you very much. (Applause.) PRESIDENT TRUMP: Thank you. Thank you very much. Great job. PRIME MINISTER MODI: Thank you. Thank you. PRESIDENT TRUMP: Beautiful. Okay, thank you very much. That was excellent. We’ll do a few questions, please. Q Mr. President — PRESIDENT TRUMP: Please, go ahead. Please, go ahead. Yeah. Yeah, blue shirt. Q Me? Q Thank you, Mr. President. People in India will naturally welcome your decision to extradite Tahawwur Rana to India back home. In that context, I would like to ask you a question about — in last few years, we have seen several groups in the U.S. been raising anti-India voice, calling about separation — terrorism activities in India. Do you think that should continue here in the U.S. as well? PRESIDENT TRUMP: You’re going to have to go louder. Q Mr. President, people in India would be welcoming your decision to extradite Tahawwur Rana to India — PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yeah, I can’t understand — Q Okay. PRESIDENT TRUMP: — a word he’s saying. It’s not the — it’s the accent. It’s a little bit tough for me. Q But can I try again? PRESIDENT TRUMP: How about — how about you. Please. Go ahead, back there. Q Thank you. Thank you very much. Q Mr. President, thank you. First, I want to ask the prime minister a question. You and the president — you both spoke about combating ISIS. You — you both sounded very exciting about this — excited about this partnership upcoming, and I — I was curious, how much more confident are you with President Trump leading this country that there will be peace through strength and you will have a suc- — successful partnership with the United States, versus with Biden’s incompetence and weakness over the last four years? PRESIDENT TRUMP: (Laughs.) (Laughter.) That’s your question, but I’ll answer it. I agree with you. (Laughter.) Yeah, gross incompetence. We’re going to have a fantastic relationship. And it has been like the whole world has been set back over the last four years by the weakness of the United States, the weak leadership of the United States, but I think we’ve taken care of it in just three weeks. It seems to me that even some of the media that we wouldn’t prefer has been writing that this is a much different country right now, that the world has a light over it — not only our country, but the whole world. The prime minister told me that before too. Even over India, the world has a light. They need the United States to be strong and powerful but good, and I think that’s happened. And I think it’s happened in a very short period of time. But I will tell you, we’re going to have a fantastic relationship, and it will make both countries much stronger. (Cross-talk.) All right? Yes, go ahead, please. Q Geeta Mohan from India today, sir. I’ll just take my colleague Lalit Jha’s question forward, because you couldn’t underst- — PRESIDENT TRUMP: Okay. Fine. Q The question is about the fact that you’ve decided to extradite Tahawwur Rana. Thank you so much. India has been waiting to — to have him back in India to bring him to justice. But there are many other elements in the United States of America, particularly Khalistani separates who’ve been working against Indian interests. How is the United States of America going to cooperate on that front with India? There are — there have been allegations that have been leveled against Indian agencies by the Biden administration. Are you going to relook that with Tulsi Gabbard as DNI now? PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, I don’t think India had a very good relationship with the Biden administration. Biden — they wouldn’t sell them oil and gas, which is rather hard to believe, because, you know, it’s a good thing to do. And a lot of things happened that weren’t very appropriate, I thought, between India and the administration — the Biden administration. But as you said, we’re giving a very violent man — it seems to me — I mean, I don’t know that he’s been convicted yet or will be, but let’s assume he’s a pretty violent person — we’re giving him back to India immediately. And there are more to follow, because we have quite a few requests. So, we work with India on crime, and we want to make it good for India, and it’s very important. So, that kind of a relationship is very important to us. Okay? (Cross-talk.) Go ahead, please. Q Thank you. PRESIDENT TRUMP: Go ahead. Q Thank you. Mr. President, you’ve repeatedly called India a big abuser of trade and said it is really difficult to do business in India because of tariffs. You announced reciprocal tariffs today. I am hoping you can speak about what kind of reciprocal tariffs India can expect. Are you willing to make any concessions, and how can India head off these tariffs? I also have one for the prime minister. PRESIDENT TRUMP: Sure. Well, India has been, to us, just about the highest tariffed nation anywhere in the world. They’ve been very strong on tariffs, and I don’t blame them, necessarily, but it’s a different way of doing business. It’s very hard to sell into India because they have trade barriers, very strong tariffs. We are right now a reciprocal nation. We are going to — if it’s India or if it’s somebody else with low tariffs, we’re going to have the same. We’re going to have whatever India charges, we’re charging them. Whatever another country charges, we’re charging them. So, it’s called reciprocal, which I think is a very fair way. We didn’t have that. I was going to do that in my other term, and we had the greatest economy ever in the world. There’s never been an economy like we had, and then we got hit with COVID. We had a focus on that, and I wasn’t really in the mood to be putting it on Italy and Spain and France and India, frankly, and a lot of other countries, because the world was very troubled until we got rid of that nightmare. But we had the strongest economy anywhere in the world during that fairly long period of time during my first term, as you know, and we didn’t do the tariffs. We would have done the reciprocal tariffs, but we decided — and I decided, I think, on a human basis — on a humane basis not to do them because of the fact that there was such suffering all over the world. The last thing we needed to talk about is trade problems. But now we’re doing — we see a tremendous future for our country. But we felt that now it’s finally time, after 45 or 50 years of abuse, that we will do — and this isn’t India, this is among a lot of nations. The European Union is very difficult for us — very, very difficult. They tax our companies at levels that nobody’s ever seen before. They take advantage of a lot of things. So, we’re not happy about that. China, of course, is terrible, and we’ve never taken in 10 cents until I was president. We’ve taken in hundreds of billions of dollars from China since I’ve been president — in first term and now — and we have to do that just as a mechanism of fairness, and that’s what I’ve done. And so, we are being reciprocal with India. Whatever India charges, we charge them. So, frankly, it no longer matters to us that much what they charge, because whatever they charge — I had discussions with India in the first term about the fact that their tariffs were very high, and I was unable to get a concession. So, we’re just going to do it the easy way, and we’re just going to say, “Whatever you charge, we charge.” And I think that’s fair for the people of the United States, and I think it’s actually fair for India. Okay? Q Are you willing to make any concessions, sir? Are you willing to make any concessions, sir? Any concessions? PRESIDENT TRUMP: Go ahead, please. Ask to the prime minister, please. Q A question for the prime minister, please. PRESIDENT TRUMP: Ask to the prime minister, please. Q Yes, sorry. Yoshita Singh with Press Trust of India. Prime Minist- — thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister, the U.S. is giving a lot of push to curb illegal immigration, and India has been cooperating on this issue. How does India see this issue in the larger context? Thank you. PRIME MINISTER MODI: (As interpreted.) I don’t think this is a question that is about India only, but, even globally, you can talk about this issue. And we are of the opinion that anybody who enters another country illegally, they — they have absolutely no right to be in that country. And as far as India and the U.S. is concerned, we have always been of the same opinion, and that is that any verified Indian who is in the U.S. illegally, we are fully prepared to take them back to India. However, it doesn’t stop there. These are children of very ordinary families, and they are lured by big dreams and big promises. A lot of them are brought in without them knowing about why they are going to a country. And, in fact, they are connected with a human trafficking system, and we have to make sure that we fight against this system. As far as the U.S. and India is concerned, I think what we should do is make efforts to make sure that we uproot these from within the system so that we can reduce or remove human trafficking. And basically, the young, vulnerable, poor people of India are fooled into coming over as illegal immigrants, and our bigger fight, actually, is against this ecosystem or this system that encourages such gangs to thrive. And I can tell you that India will completely support your endeavor in achieving this. (Cross-talk.) PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yes. Q Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. A question for Prime Minister Modi first, if I may. I wanted to ask you: Did you discuss any possible business deals with Elon Musk during your — your meetings today, Mr. Prime Minister? And, Mr. President, I wanted to ask you: Today, you spoke about hoping to have three-way talks with President Xi and President Putin. What would you say to European leaders and other allies who may be concerned that you’re apparently more keen to speak to America’s adversaries than to its allies? Thank you. PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, maybe I’ll just go and — first on this one. We had some talks, and we told the European Union, we told the NATO people — largely, they overlap — “You have to pay more money because it’s unfair what we’re doing. We’re doing a tremendous amount more.” We’re probably $200 billion more going into Ukraine, using for Ukraine to fight, and Europe has not really carried its weight in terms of the money. It’s not equitable, and we want to see a counterbalance. We want to have them put up more money. They have to do that. At the same time, we had a very good conversation with President Putin the other day — yesterday. And we also had a very good conversation — I did, both — in both cases — with President Zelenskyy. And I think we’re going to be able to do something. I think we’re going to be able to make a deal, and I hope so, because it’s a horrible war. It’s a very terrible, bloody war with a million and a half soldiers, at least, already dead on the battlefield, lying all over the fields like — nobody has ever seen anything like it since — certainly since the Second World War. And so, I think we’re going to be able to do something. We’re working with President Zelenskyy and with President Putin, and my impression is that they — I know that President Zelenskyy wants to make a deal, and I also feel that — I know that President Putin wants to make a deal. I wanted to know that before I began any detailed discussions. But the meeting and the — the conversation — also, the meeting with Steve Witkoff in Moscow was a very successful one, and my phone call with him was a very successful one. Please. PRIME MINISTER MODI: (As interpreted.) You asked a question regarding Elon Musk. I have known him for a very long time. I was not even prime minister at the time when I first met him; I was chief minister. And today he came to meet me along with all his family, with his children. And so, we had a nice discussion. As far as the EV is concerned — EVs are concerned, the EV — the word “EV” has a copyright. And that is one person who has a copyright for the word “EV,” and that is Trump. (Cross-talk.) PRESIDENT TRUMP: Thank you. That was very nice. Go ahead, please. Q Thank you, Mr. President. Can I ask whether you discussed at all today the case of Gautam Adani, who’s one of the weal- — the wealthiest men in Asia and perceived as an ally of Prime Minister Modi? Prime Minister Modi, have you asked the president to take action on that case? Thank you. PRIME MINISTER MODI: (As interpreted.) Firstly, India is a democratic country, and our culture and our thought philosophy is Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, which basically means that the entire world is a family. Every Indian is my own family member. And when it comes to such personal matters, two cou- — leaders of two countries will not get together on that topic and discuss anything on an individual matter. (Cross-talk.) PRESIDENT TRUMP: Go ahead. Please. Yeah. Please. Q Which one? PRESIDENT TRUMP: Sir, go ahead, please. Q Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I have a question for you as well. But, Mr. President, you have suggested — with regards to the Russia-Ukraine war, you’ve suggested several things that Ukraine should give up: the idea of NATO membership, territory that was seized back in 2014 by Russia. What should Russia give up? PRESIDENT TRUMP: Russia has gotten themselves into something that I think they wish they didn’t. If I were president, it would not have happened — absolutely would not have happened, and it didn’t happen for four years. If you look at what has taken place, under President Bush, they lost a lot. Under President Obama, they lost Crimea. Under Biden, it looks like they could lose the whole thing. Under Trump, they lost nothing — Ukraine lost nothing. They didn’t give up anything. And you take a look at the other three presidents surrounding me, they gave up a lot. I think that when you look at Ukraine and when you look at the mess that they’re in, it’s got to be ended, and it’s got to be stopped. Now, Russia has taken over a pretty big chunk of territory, and they also have said from day one — long before President Putin, they’ve said they cannot have Ukraine be in NATO. They said that very strongly. I actually think that that was the thing that caused the start of the war. And Biden said it, and Zelenskyy said it, and I think that was one of the reasons — one of the starts of the war. But from long before Putin, they said you cannot have Ukraine going in, in any way, into NATO. And I start from that standpoint. I think everybody knew that. Now, if a better deal can be negotiated, if they were able to make a deal where they can do that, that’s fine with me. I really don’t care. I want that bloodshed to stop. I don’t want to see — you know, we have an ocean between us and the site we’re talking about — the site of death. We’re calling it the fields of death. We have a big ocean in between us. This is more important for Europe. We shouldn’t be in — they have to equalize, and they’re going to have to do it fast, but they have to equalize. But as far as the negotiation, it’s too early to say what’s going to happen. Maybe Russia will give up a lot, maybe they won’t, and it’s all dependent on what is going to happen. The negotiation really hasn’t started. But I will say, as far as NATO is concerned, from many years before President Putin, I will tell you that I’ve heard that Russia would never accept that, and I think Ukraine knew that, because Ukraine wasn’t in and never requested to be in until more recently. So, that’s the way it is, and I think that’s the way it’s going to have to be. (Cross-talk.) Q But, Mr. President — Mr. President, I — PRESIDENT TRUMP: Go ahead, please. All right. Go ahead, please, with the tie. (Cross-talk.) With the tie, yeah. Q Mr. President, I have a question for the prime minister. Q Mr. President — PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yes, go ahead, please. Q This is Saurabh Shukla from NewsMobile. Mr. President, you spoke about Prime Minister Modi as a tough negotiator. Who was a tougher negotiator today, and who has a better negotiating tactic when it comes to tariffs with — PRESIDENT TRUMP: Oh, he’s a much tougher negotiator than me, and he’s a much better negotiator than me. There’s not even a contest. Okay? (Laughter.) (Cross-talk.) Yeah, go ahead. Please go ahead. Go ahead. Q Reena Bhardwaj from ANI. How do you see this relationship between the India and the United States to counter China? And what is your vision when it comes to India, you know, brokering peace in the Ukraine and Russia conflict? PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, I think we are going to have a very good relationship with China. I got along with President Xi very well until COVID. That was a bridge too far. But until then, I got along with President Xi very, very well. We were very close, as leaders go. I don’t want to be naive, but as leaders go, I think we were very close. And I think that China is a very important player in the world. I think they can help us get this war over with Ukraine and Russia. And I look at India, I do see the skirmishes on the border, which are quite vicious, and I guess they continue to go on. If I could be of help, I’d love to help, because that should be stopped. That’s been going on for a long time, and it’s quite violent. It’s quite violent. But I would hope that China and India and Russia and U.S. and all of us can get along. It’s very important. You know, the power of weaponry today is — and not only nuclear, but nuclear, in particular — the power of weaponry is very important. I said before that I had very constructive talks in my first term with President Putin about the denuclearization of the two countries. And then we were going to go to China after we worked some kind of a deal, and we had the confines of a deal. We were — I thought we — he really wanted to do it and so did I — denuclearize. And it’s such a beautiful term, when you think about it. In other words, to bring it down, because the power of those weapons is too great. And I did speak to President Xi about that, and I was getting also a very good response. He’s building a very strong nuclear power. He’s not very close to Russia or the United States right now, but he will be soon. I mean, he’ll catch up over the period of four or five years, they say. But it would be a great thing if we could — on a military basis, we’re going to spend this year 900- — let’s say $915 billion on military. Russia, without the war, was spending close to a hundred, but with the war, I can’t tell you what they’re spending, but they’re spending a lot. And China is spending $400- and $450 billion. We’re over $900 billion. And I said, “You know, it doesn’t really make sense.” I said, “We’re spending the money against each other, and we could spend that money for better purpose if we got along.” And I’ll tell you, I think that something like that will happen. First, when I left, as you know, four years ago, we didn’t have Israel and the Middle East. We didn’t have October 7th — what a disaster — the disaster. Nothing was happening. Iran was not going to do anything, because Iran did not have much money at that point. They were broke. They were totally broke. They didn’t have money for Hamas or for Hezbollah. And you didn’t have Russia with Ukraine, and that would never have happened. But now I come back, and I have — the whole world is on fire, so I have to put out the fires. But after I put out the fires, I’m going to meet with China, and I’m going to meet with Russia, and we’re going to see if we can de-escalate, if we can bring it down — military — especially as it pertains to nuclear. Please. (Cross-talk.) Q And India’s role — India’s role in — how do — Q Mr. President, you mentioned about American Islamic terrorism — (Cross-talk.) Q Prime Minister, how do you see India play a role in a — in de-escalating the Ukraine-Russia — INTERPRETER: Mic, please. PRIME MINISTER MODI: (No translation provided.) Q (As interpreted.) Prime Minister, how do you see India’s role? You have had discussions with President Trump about de-escalating the conflict in Russia and Ukraine. PRIME MINISTER MODI: (As interpreted.) As you know, I have been in constant contact with both Russia and Ukraine. I have also visited both countries. And many peoples are mistaken and they feel that India is neutral. I would like to clarify: India is not neutral. We have taken a side, and we have taken the side of peace. And it is based on this principle of ours that, in the presence of President Putin, I clearly said in front of the media that this is not the era of war. And even today, it is my conviction that solutions cannot be found on the battlefield. Ultimately, you have to come to the negotiating table, and India has constantly made efforts that there are talks that take place where both parties are present. It is only then that we will find a solution. The efforts being made by President Trump — I support them, I welcome them, and I would like that President Trump is successful as soon as possible so that the world is on the path to peace once again. (Cross-talk.) PRESIDENT TRUMP: Everybody, thank you very much. Thank you very much. (Cross-talk.) And I very much appreciate the prime minister visiting our great country, and I do really appreciate it. We have so much in common, and all we want to do is have peace, and we want to have strength, and we want to have lots of different things together, but the relationship with India and with the prime minister has never been better. Thank you very much. PRIME MINISTER MODI: Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.) PRESIDENT TRUMP: Thank you very much. PRIME MINISTER MODI: Thank you. PRESIDENT TRUMP: A great honor. Thank you. END 6:45 P.M. EST 
THE WHITE HOUSE Office of Communications ________________________________________________________________ REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP AND SECRETARY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES ROBERT F. KENNEDY, JR., DURING SWEARING-IN CEREMONY Oval Office(February 13, 2025) 2:45 P.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: Good. Thank you very much. And thank you all for being here on this very exciting — this is a very exciting day for — we just had a big tariff meeting — reciprocal tariffs. Should have been done 40 years ago. It wasn’t, but it is now. It was big moment, actually, and this is a tremendous moment right now. And it’s going to be a real honor for me to introduce Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., who’ll take the oath of office and officially become our secretary of Health and Human Services, just as I promised last year. Bobby is going to lead a great national mission to make America healthy again, and he’s going to do it. I think he’s going to do things that will really make us very proud of this day. Like his father, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and his uncle, President John F. Kennedy, Bobby has devoted much of his life to serving his fellow Americans. In his campaign for president — and he was a very tough competitor. I did not like it at all. (Laughter.) I said, “Let’s get him on my side.” (Laughter.) But in his campaign for president in 2024, Bobby brought together a coalition of supporters across party lines, and he really worked very hard, and he had tremendous support, unbelievable support. And I think a lot of that support came my way when we decided to do a little merger. And it was really great. And it was very loyal — very loyal, incredible people. They believe in him so strongly because he’s a fierce advocate for the health of our children and for the values of free speech, democracy, and peace. And people are going to be very impressed. I have no doubt. I’ve known him a long time. He’s been a friend of mine a long time. Perhaps most importantly, though, Bobby created a nationwide movement made up of millions and millions of mothers and fathers and young people and concerned citizen of every background who want to end this — this horrible, chronic disease crisis that exists in America. He’s absolutely committed to getting dangerous chemicals out of our environment and out of our food supply and getting the American people the facts and the answers that we deserve after years in which our public health system has squandered the trust of our citizens. And they really have. They don’t trust us. They don’t trust anybody, frankly. They’ve gone through hell. There’s no better person to lead our campaign of historic reforms and restore faith in American health care, and Bobby is going to do it. The United States spends more money in health than any other country on Earth, but we’re growing sicker every year. We’re not as healthy as countries that spend just a fraction of what we spend. So, there’s something wrong. He’s going to figure it out. In recent decades, we’ve seen staggering increases in cancer rates across all age demographics, including more than 40 percent increase in childhood cancer since 1975 — who can believe that? — and an explosion in other chronic childhood illnesses. Not long ago, 1 in 10,000 people — children had autism. Now it’s 1 in 36. Think of that, 1 in 10,000 — 1 in 10,000, and now it’s 1 in 36. Who can believe that? There’s something wrong. There’s something wrong, and I think it’s something that can be found out. In 2022, more than 40 percent of children had at least one chronic health condition, and today, nearly 80 percent of young adults do not qualify for military service, in large part for health reasons. Think of that, 80 percent. Something is wrong, and that’s why, immediately after Bobby is sworn in, I will be signing an executive order establishing the president’s commission to make America healthy again. We have some great people on that commission. Chaired by our new secretary, this groundbreaking commission will be charged with investigating what is causing the decades-long increase in chronic illness, reporting its findings, and delivering an action plan to the American people. And it’s going to be a plan that people are really waiting to hear. Bobby, I want to thank you. You’ve gone through a lot. It’s taken great courage. You’ve been amazing, actually. I’d call him, I’d say, “You’re going to be okay.” And he said, “I know. I really do.” He’s really been supported, amazingly, by Cheryl and his family. And it was a very tough — it was a very nasty group of people that were after him, but he was tougher, and he was smarter than they are, and that’s why he’s here today. There are very few people that could have withstood the assault, but he was able to. So, I just want to congratulate you, and we have a very special person here to swear you in. A very — a man that I think has done just a — I think he’s just an amazing man, as you know. His name happens to be Gorsuch, and he’s a member of the Supreme Court in extremely good standing. He’s highly respected by everybody. And I didn’t know, are you two friends or something or did this just happen to be — Justice, did this just happen to be the luck of the draw? What happened? MR. KENNEDY: I reached out to him. THE PRESIDENT: Did you reach out? MR. KENNEDY: Yes. THE PRESIDENT: Well, you reached out to a very good man. So, please, if you would. Thank you very much. (Applause.) MR. SCHARF: Mr. President, you have to sign the commission first. Sorry — sorry, Justice, we just need to — JUSTICE GORSUCH: Oh, this has to be done first. THE PRESIDENT: I’ll do this first. MR. SCHARF: Sorry. THE PRESIDENT: We’re going to make this a good one, right? Okay. It’s good so far, Bobby. Good. (The certificate is signed.) It’s a 10. (Laughter and applause.) (Inaudible.) (The president, Justice Gorsuch, and Secretary Kennedy pose for a picture with the signed certificate.) JUSTICE GORSUCH: Let me get out of this one. MS. HINES: No, why am I in it? I’m not — (laughter) — PARTICIPANT: Go in there. Get the kids in there. Go in there. MS. HINES: And the — oh, I’m going to hold it. Okay, I’m holding it. THE PRESIDENT: Why don’t you get in here? JUSTICE GORSUCH: Sure. All right. AIDE: Over here, please. (The president, Justice Gorsuch, Secretary Kennedy, and the family of Secretary Kennedy pose for a picture with the signed certificate.) (Applause.) JUSTICE GORSUCH: Would all the family like to join? PARTICIPANT: Yeah, sure. JUSTICE GORSUCH: Please place your left hand on the Bible and raise your right. Repeat after me. I, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. MR. KENNEDY: I, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. JUSTICE GORSUCH: Do solemnly swear. MR. KENNEDY: Do solemnly swear. JUSTICE GORSUCH: That I will support and defend. MR. KENNEDY: That I will support and defend. JUSTICE GORSUCH: The Constitution of the United States. MR. KENNEDY: The Constitution of the United States. JUSTICE GORSUCH: Against all enemies. MR. KENNEDY: Against all enemies. JUSTICE GORSUCH: Foreign and domestic. MR. KENNEDY: Foreign and domestic. JUSTICE GORSUCH: That I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same. MR. KENNEDY: That I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same. JUSTICE GORSUCH: That I take this obligation freely. MR. KENNEDY: That I take this obligation freely. JUSTICE GORSUCH: Without anty — without any mental reservation. MR. KENNEDY: Without any mental reservation. JUSTICE GORSUCH: Or purpose of evasion. MR. KENNEDY: Or purpose of evasion. JUSTICE GORSUCH: And that I will well and faithfully discharge. MR. KENNEDY: And that I will well and faithfully discharge. JUSTICE GORSUCH: The duties of the office. MR. KENNEDY: The duties of the office. JUSTICE GORSUCH: On which I am about to enter. MR. KENNEDY: On which I am about to enter. JUSTICE GORSUCH: So help me, God. MR. KENNEDY: So help me, God. JUSTICE GORSUCH: Congratulations, Mr. Secretary. (Applause.) THE PRESIDENT: Bobby. MS. HINES: Oh, Bobby. SECRETARY KENNEDY: I — I want to being by thanking President Trump for giving me this extraordinary opportunity, and I — I want to introduce my family and thank them for being here. My wife, Cheryl; my cousin, Anthony Shriver; my daughter, Kick; my other daughter, Kyra; Carolina — Carolina Shriver; Joey Shriver; Jackson Hines; and Amaryllis Kennedy. Oh, and I want to thank all of you so — for your support and throughout this whole two-and-a-half-year journey. I — I — my first time in this Oval Office was in 1961, and I came here to meet my — or 1962. I came here, and I had a meeting with my uncle, who was president then, where we talked about the environment. He was involved deeply, as we all know, in restoring physical fitness in this country. He challenged — at one point during his administration, he challenged Americans to do a 50-mile walk, which I ultimately did. But I remember the day that my father completed his walk. We were staying at — at — up at Camp David. And my father came in after 18 hours walking on the C&O towpath with his feet bleeding and blisters on them. My father had a — one of his best friends was Al Lowenstein. And Al Lowenstein ult- — ultimately — he was a congressman from New York who was assassinated himself in 1980. But Al Lowenstein had started the “Dump Johnson” movement to get rid of President Johnson and — and end the Vietnam War. And at the time that he started it, people just thought it was a fool’s errand. And ultimately, he asked my father to run for president against Johnson. My father wouldn’t do it at that time, and he asked Gene McCarthy. McCarthy did it, and he joined that campaign. And my father ultimately ran, and Johnson then dropped out. So, Al Lowenstein had succeeded. And although Al Lowenstein was on the other side now running against my father with Gene McCarthy, my father wrote him a note — a quote from Emerson — where he said, “If a single man plants himself firmly on his own ideal, and there abide, the whole wide world will come around to him.” For 20 years, I’ve gotten up every morning on my knees and prayed that God would put me in a position where I can end the childhood chronic disease epidemic in this country. On August 23rd of last year, God sent me President Trump, and he gave me — (applause) — he’s now given me — he’s kept every promise that he’s made to me. He’s kept his word in every account and gone way beyond it. I’m so grateful to you, Mr. President. A lot of people told me that I couldn’t trust President Trump, that I better get it in writing. And we did a handshake, and everything that he told me he was going to do, he has done. And I’m so grateful to him. And I’ve told you before, I genuinely believe that you are a pivotal historical figure, and you are going to transform this country at a time when we see all of the indicia of democracy now in tatters in our country. We see the rise of the military-industrial complex, the rise of totalitarianism, these attacks on our Constitution, and this breathtaking epidemic that is disabling our people. President Trump has promised to restore the American dream in this country. A healthy person has a thousand dreams. A sick person only has one. Sixty percent of our population has only one dream: that they get better. President Trump has promised that he’s going to restore America’s strength. But we can’t be a strong nation if we have a weak citizenry. If people are sick — 60 percent of our — our people are sick. Seventy-seven percent, as President Trump mentioned, of our children cannot qualify for military service. And pr- — we need a man on a white horse now. We need somebody who — who is willing to come in and has the spine and the guts and the strength to challenge orthodoxies, to stand in the way of vested interests, and to break institutions that have turned against our democracy. President Trump has shown again and again that he is that hero. And most recently, I gre- — greatly appreciate, and I called you the day that you announced the termination of USAID. My uncle started USAID in 1961 for humanitarian purposes, to put our country on the side of the poor. It has been captured by the military-industrial complex. It has become a sinister propagator of totalitarianism across — and war across the globe, and very few people understand how sinister this agency really is. And President Trump saw that, and he stood up to it with a master stroke. And we want to do the same thing with the institutions that are stealing the health of our children. We need a revolutionary figure, and you are that figure. And I’m very grateful for you for giving me this opportunity. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Bobby. SECRETARY KENNEDY: I want to — (applause) — I just — I want to recognize some of the — the allies that I’ve had in this battle for a long time: Ra- — Senator Rand Paul; Senator Ron Johnson; Senator Roger Marshall; Marjorie Taylor Greene; and — and Buddy Carter, who have all been champions of the MAHA agenda before I even came along. I’m very grateful for you for standing strong. Thank you very much, President Trump. (Applause.) Q Mr. Secretary, if I could ask, what plans do you have immediately at HHS now that you’re sworn in, sir? THE PRESIDENT: He’s going to be running it. He’s going to do a great job. That’s my plan. Q What would you like to see him to do first, Mr. President? THE PRESIDENT: Well, he’s going to find out a lot of secrets that have been maybe kept from us, but he’s going to come up with some solutions to some big, big problems — solve problems. And I think he’s going to go down in the record books. I really have confidence. This group has great co- — even Rand has confidence, and that’s — (laughter) — that doesn’t happen often. (Applause.) (Inaudible) good luck. Good luck. Q If I could ask you, Mr. Secretary, do you plan to fire anyone immediately? Or what are your plans on day one, which I guess is today? SECRETARY KENNEDY: Our plans are radical transparency and returning gold-standard science to NIH, to the FDA, and CDC — to end — ending the corruption, ending the corporate capture of those agencies, getting rid of the people on those panels that have conflicts of interest. We can do unadorned and unimpeded science, rather than the kind of product that is coming out of those agencies today. Q Mr. Secretary, may I ask, how do you address concerns that some Americans may have about your stance on vaccines? SECRETARY KENNEDY: If — when people actually hear what I think about vaccines, which is common sense — which is vaccines should be tested, they should be safe, everybody should have informed consent — people — people are reacting because they hear things about me that aren’t true. They hear characterizations of things that I’ve said that are simply not true. When they hear what I have to say, actually, about vaccines, everybody supports it. Q Mr. Kennedy, Cara Castronuova from Lindell TV. What’s your message to Democrats in the Senate that fought so hard to keep you from taking this position? And congratulations, by the way. SECRETARY KENNEDY: President Trump has promised to be the president for all Americans, and he has said to me that he understands that there’s no such thing as Republican children or Democratic children. All of our children need to be protected. And whether you’re in a blue state or red state, I’m going to do everything I can to work with you, whether you’re a Democrat or Republican, to restore child’s health in this country. Q Mr. Secretary, m- — THE PRESIDENT: Great job. Great job. Thank you all very much. Thank you. (Applause.) END 3:03 P.M. EST 
REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMPAND VICE PRESIDENT VANCEAT LIBERTY BALL Walter E. Washington Convention CenterWashington, D.C. (January 20, 2025) 11:27 P.M. ESTTHE VICE PRESIDENT: Good evening, everybody. How are we doing? (Applause.) Are we ready to make America great again? (Applause.)I just want to say we’re so grateful to all of you, so grateful for making sure that we made this election too big to rig, because that’s exactly what we did — (applause) — and we did it together.And, of course, I want to thank my dear friend, and I think the best president that this country has had, a man — (applause) — a man who has put everything on the line for the United States of America and gets an opportunity to serve this great country once again: President Donald J. Trump. (Applause.)So, do we want to hear from the 45th and 47th president of the United States? (Applause.)Take it away, sir.THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, JD. This is a hell of a day we’re having, right? (Applause.)It began very early, and then we decided — you know, we made a good decision, by the way, doing it in the rotunda, as opposed to in about four degrees with the windchill factor. That would not have been pretty. And, you know, if I made us — did you ever speak in really cold weather? You can’t. They would say — the fake news over there, they’d say, “He’s cognitively impaired. There’s something wrong with him.” (Laughter.) So, we didn’t want to give them the chance to do that, did we?We had a — a great time. We had 72-degree temperature in the rotunda. We had the people that we needed. And we had the people that we need tonight, because you guys are unbelievable. We love you all. (Applause.)And we said a lot of things today. I think we got tremendous reviews on the speech. And, you know, I wanted to put in some really rough stuff, and all of my people, including JD, they said, “You know, let’s not put that paragraph in.” Oh, I loved that paragraph. (Laughter.) There was a paragraph on “Biden shouldn’t be pardoning his family.” (Applause.) And we had a couple of others that were far worse than that. But they said, “You know, the speech is so nice and it’s so unifying.” I said, “All right, we won’t do it. I’ll do it about two hours later.” So, we’ve done — (laughter) — we’ve been doing it all night long.But, you know, we’re going to turn this country around and fast. (Applause.) We have — we have assets like nobody else. Number one, we have our people. That’s our greatest asset, the people of our country. (Applause.)And I just — and I have a great family. I really do. I — I just look around. My son Eric has been so incredible, married to a woman who became the head of the Republican Party. I wonder, how the hell did that happen? (Applause.) And she’s — she really — her and Michael Whatley, from North Carolina, did a great job. (Applause.)And then you have — where is my Ivanka? Have you ever heard of Ivanka and Jared? (Applause.)And we have — Tiffany is here someplace. There’s Tiffany. Have — with — with child, I have to say. (Applause.) And Michael. Thank you very much. And what — look at that group back there. That’s Kai, our great golfer. She — a great golfer, that one. (Applause.)And Don and Don and Chloe. Chloe — I don’t know, Ivanka, she might be as good as this one. You have to see her athletic ability. You wouldn’t believe it. You look at her, she looks so innocent. She’s a killer. (Laughter.) Chloe is a killer. And we have a great vice president, I want to tell you, and a fantastic — (applause) — and he’s got a fantastic wife and helper, and she’s done — she’s done just incredible things for the party and for him. And I want to thank you. Great job. Great job. JD Vance, great job. (Applause.)So — so, we’re going to keep it going. We’re going to have it turned around quickly. This big ship, we got to turn it a little bit slower than I’d like, but we’re going to turn it around. We have things that nobody else has. You know, we — we also have something that — it’s not politically correct to say, but it’s becoming very politically correct: We have more liquid gold under our feet than any other nation in the world. (Applause.) And if you don’t mind, we’re going to use it, right? (Applause.)And we just left the Commander in Chief Ball, which is, like, a similar size. Everyone — and we’re going to another one in a little while. We needed three because we have such support. There’s a longing for competence in this country. There’s a longing for common sense in this country. And I was saying before, with a party of common sense, you know, we — we don’t want to have men playing in women’s sports. (Applause.) We don’t want to have transgender operations for everyone. (Applause.) And we just want to have a great country. Wan- — we want education. We want houses that don’t cost a fortune. We want low interest rates. We want low taxes. We want a strong, powerful military, and we’re going to have that. We did it once. We did it in 2017. We rebuilt our entire military. It was given away, a lot of it. Can you believe it? Given away — so foolishly given away, but we’ll have it back again very, very soon.And we’ll be making some announcements. You’re going to be so thrilled. But we love you all. We’re going to be — you know, I’d like to say we are a great nation. We will soon be the greatest we’ve ever been, and that won’t take long. So, I want to thank you all for being here tonight, special people, and we’ll see you soon. Just watch what happens. Going to be big progress. (Applause.)Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause.)(The Village People perform “Y.M.C.A.”)MR. WILLIS: Well, all right. President Trump, Vice President Vance. Thank you, sir.THE PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to tell you, they’ve done something that’s never been done before. So, it was, like, about 30 years ago — and I’m trying to be nice — (laughter) — and they did well, but I’m not sure they hit number one. But you know what? They hit number one for the last three weeks, and they are beating every other record — recording. (Applause.) They’re the number one show in town, and I want to just congratulate you.You’ve been with this song a long time, right?MR. WILLIS: Yes. I wrote the lyrics to it (inaudible).THE PRESIDENT: You did?MR. WILLIS: Yes, sir.THE PRESIDENT: Well, you’re a talented guy.MR. WILLIS: Thank you, sir.THE PRESIDENT: Number one, we love it. And you’re number one too. Thank you, everybody. And our country is number one, most importantly. (Applause.) Thank you very much. Congratulations.MR. WILLIS: Thank you.THE PRESIDENT: It’s a fantastic job.Thank you. (Applause.) END 11:38 P.M. EST
Union StationWashington, D.C. 12:17 A.M. EST THE VICE PRESIDENT: How we doing? (Applause.) Isn’t it a great day to make the 45th president of the United States the 47th president of the United States? (Applause.) Just say, first of all, thank you to all of you for your support, for your kindness, for your friendship, for believing enough in this country to fight for it and make Donald J. Trump the president America needs at this moment in time. (Applause.) We love you, and we’re grateful to you. And, second, I want to thank the president for his trust that he’s placed in me but, most importantly, for the willingness to sacrifice, to serve, to fight through all — let’s be honest and call it what it is — fight through all of the lies and the bullshit to serve the American people. (Applause.) So, I want to introduce the 45th and 47th president of the United States. And we are lucky to have him. God bless you all. (Applause.) THE PRESIDENT: Well, thank you very much, JD. And it’s great to have you all. And, by the way, JD is doing a great job. You know that. We picked — we picked the right person. (Applause.) But I especially want to thank the people in this room. You know, many of you are donors. Some of you are large donors. You believed in us very early. Some of you believed in us from 2015. (Applause.) But you believed in us — there’s a lot of people out there. And — and 2016 was a great year. And then we did much better in 2020, much — we got 10 or 12 million more votes. And I don’t know what happened, but I knew — I said, “We’re doing this again. We’re going to make it too big to rig.” And that’s what happened. We had the best numbers anyone has ever seen in the history of the Republican Party, actually. Got the biggest vote in the history of the Republican Party and I guess in most of the history of the Democrat Party too, because we won in a landslide. We won the seven swing states, and we won the popular vote. It’s nice to be popular. It’s very nice to be popular. (Applause.) And we won it — we won it by millions of votes. So, I just want to thank everybody, because this really is a very special room. And this is the one we chose to come to last. That’s supposed to be a good thing, and it is a good thing, because we have so many friends in the crowd but, really, friends that supported us. We had a — an incredible day today at the inauguration, and I’ve gotten good reviews on the speech. You know, they made me take some of the rather difficult things — Melania said to me, “You know, you could do without a couple of those paragraphs.” (Laughter.) And we listened, and we listened to some others. We have some tremendous professionals. Susie Wiles is doing a fantastic job. (Applause.) (Inaudible.) And we had great people — great people on the campaign. The campaign was so beautiful. That last 120 days, I didn’t sleep one night. I mean, literally, we just kept going, going, going — no days off, no vacation days. And we kept hearing the other side was going to take a couple of days off during the week. I remember there were 14 days, then 17 days, and I heard that our opponent was going to take about 5 days off. I said, “How do you do that when you’re going for the big one?” (Laughter.) But we worked very hard. And I really think we outworked them, but we also out-thought them. Work is wonderful, but you have to be able to think. And now we have the job of bringing our country back because we have the embarrassment of having other countries dumping prisoners and mental institution patients into our country with a stupid open border. As you know, the border was closed at exactly 1:05 in the afternoon today. (Applause.) And I don’t mean closed; I mean really closed. It’s closed. And we’re going to — we have no choice. It’s not that I want to do this. Dwight Eisenhower, a very moderate president, has the record. He just couldn’t stand when people poured into the country. He has the record for getting people out that shouldn’t be here. And, you know, we’re going to far exceed that — not that I want to brag about it, because I hate having to do it. They should have never done this to our country. They should have never let this happen. You know that this is happening with countries all over the world, and you know their crime rates are going down by 10 and 15 and 20 percent every six months? Venezuela, their crime rate is down by 74.2 percent because they took their street criminals, their prisoners, and their mental patients, and they brought them into the United States of America. Who the hell can think that’s a good thing? But we’re getting them out, and we’re strengthening everything we have. We have something that nobody else has. We have more liquid gold under our feet than any other country in the world. (Applause.) And if you don’t mind — now, if you do mind, I will not do it — if you don’t mind, we’re going to use it. We’re going to use it. And — and through a system of good deals and renegotiating all of these terrible deals — we made some good — really good ones in 2016, but some of the best ones we made were terminated by this Biden administration and gave them back everything they wanted, these other countries, even if they’re allies. And we have some allies from countries right in this room — big, big people in countries. So, I hate to embarrass them, but some of our allies are really — they treat us worse than the enemies on trade. We’re not going to let that happen. So, we’re going to do things that really started three months ago. We won the election, and that was a big, big — November 5th, that was a big day. And I want to make that the most consequential election in the history of our country. It’s going to be the most consequential. We’re going to turn it around very fast. It’s a big, big ship, but we’re turning it as fast as a big ship can be turned. And we’re going to make America great again. (Applause.) And I just want to thank everybody in — in this large room, because it’s packed. And the beautiful thing is we have two other rooms that are massive, and you couldn’t get in. No matter what you did, you couldn’t get in. And it’s just a great tribute to everybody here and to the people on stage. My family has been so great. Everyone in this — on this floor. Did — has anybody ever heard of Eric Trump? (Applause.) He’s got more subpoenas than anybody in the history of the United States. (Laughter.) They were after their political opponent. How did that work out? Not so good. They got us a lot of votes. Can you believe it? That’s the first time that’s ever happened, actually. But I just want to thank everybody very much, and I want to thank our first lady. People love our first lady. (Applause.) And she’s done a fantastic job. And we’re going to have a tremendous four years, and hopefully it’s going to go long beyond four years. We have some tremendous talent, including this guy right here. Hopefully, it’s going to go long beyond four years. So, again, I want to thank you for your confidence. I want to especially thank those people — JD — that were here in 2015 before I really started. And there’s a lot of them in the room, and they just stuck. And they said, “We got to do it again, sir. We got to do it again.” And we did it again, and we won in record fashion. So, it was a landslide. It was a mandate like nobody has had before. So, thank you all very much. We love you all. And we’re going to do a real job for you. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. (Applause.) END 12:24 A.M. EST
REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP AT EXECUTIVE ORDER SIGNING Oval Office (January 23, 2025) 3:10 P.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: Hello, everybody. Q Hello, sir. THE PRESIDENT: You all set? Okay. Very good. I’m going to sign some executive orders. They were very important in just about every case. And we’ll go through the first one, please. MR. SCHARF: Sure. Do you want to — MR. SACKS: Yeah. Mr. President, this is an executive order on crypto. We’re going to be — MR. SCHARF: That’s AI. Sorry. MR. SACKS: Oh, sorry. We’re doing AI first. Sorry. MR. SCHARF: Yeah, AI. MR. SACKS: Sir, this is an executive order on AI. We’re forming — we’re — we’re basically announcing the administration’s policy to make America the — the world capital in artificial intelligence and to dominate and to lead the world in AI. THE PRESIDENT: Do you want to say your name — your full name and serial number? MR. SACKS: Yeah, David Sacks, AI and crypto czar. THE PRESIDENT: David is one of the greatest in the world at AI — most respected, probably, there is. (The executive order is signed.) So, that should take us to the forefront, right? MR. SACKS: Absolutely. We got to win. THE PRESIDENT: Okay. Thank you. MR. SCHARF: Thank you, sir. THE PRESIDENT: And this, David, is? MR. SCHARF: Crypto. MR. SACKS: Yeah, this is the crypto EO. We’re going to be forming a internal working group to make crypto — to make America the world capital on crypto under your leadership. THE PRESIDENT: Which is really going up, right? MR. SACKS: Absolutely. (The executive order is signed.) THE PRESIDENT: All right, David. That’s for you. (The president gives Mr. Sacks the signing pen.) Thanks. MR. SACKS: Thank you, sir. THE PRESIDENT: You find them exciting? They might not be exciting, but we’re going to make a lot of money for the country. Okay? MR. SACKS: Thank you, sir. THE PRESIDENT: And so is David. You have to check him out. There is nobody like this guy. They said, “How did you get David Sacks? How did you do that?” And he’s — he’s doing it for the country more than anything else. So, we appreciate it, David. Thank you very much. MR. SACKS: Thank you, sir. MR. SCHARF: This is an executive order establishing a presidential commission — an advisory commission on science and technology. THE PRESIDENT: Good. (The executive order is signed.) Do you want to explain that a little bit? MR. SCHARF: The basic idea is to get together top people from government to private-sector technology industry, as well as educational institutions, to make sure that America maintains its leadership position with respect to science and technology development in the years ahead. THE PRESIDENT: Good. That’s great. MR. SCHARF: Next, sir, we have a presidential memorandum encouraging departments and agencies in your government, including the Department of the Interior, to promote federal recognition of the Lumbee Tribe of — THE PRESIDENT: Ohh. MR. SCHARF: — North Carolina. THE PRESIDENT: I love the Lumbee Tribe. So, this is their first big step, right? MR. SCHARF: This would be a huge step for them, sir. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. They were with me all the way. They were great — North Carolina Lumbee Tribe. (The presidential memorandum is signed.) And we’ll send — you’ll send them a copy of that? MR. SCHARF: Yes, sir. THE PRESIDENT: They were great. Okay? MR. SCHARF: And, if you’d like, I could get them that pen, sir, as well. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, let’s do that. (The president gives Mr. Scharf the signing pen.) MR. SCHARF: Next, we have a set of pardons for peaceful pro-life protestors who were prosecuted by the Biden administration for exercising their First Amendment rights. THE PRESIDENT: Do you know how many? MR. SCHARF: I believe it’s 23, sir. THE PRESIDENT: Twenty-three people that were prosecuted. They should not have been prosecuted. Man- of — many of them are — are elderly people. They should not have been prosecuted. This is a great honor to sign this. (The proclamation is signed.) They’ll be very happy. MR. SCHARF: Thank you, sir. THE PRESIDENT: So, they’re all in prison now? MR. SCHARF: Some are. Some are — are out of custody. THE PRESIDENT: It’s ridiculous. Okay? MR. SCHARF: Lastly, sir, we have an executive order ordering the declassification of files relating to the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. THE PRESIDENT: That’s a big one, huh? A lot of people are waiting for this for a long — for years — MR. SCHARF: Yes, sir. THE PRESIDENT: — for decades. And everything will be revealed. (The executive order is signed.) Okay. Give that to RFK, Jr. (The president gives Mr. Scharf the signing pen.) MR. SCHARF: Yes, sir. THE PRESIDENT: Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. (Cross-talk.) Q Mr. President — Mr. President, a U.S. judge temporarily blocked the birthright citizenship order. Do you have any reaction to — THE PRESIDENT: No. Obviously, we’ll appeal it. They put it before a certain judge — in Seattle, I guess, right? And there’s no surprises with that judge. Q Mr. President, Senators Collins and Murkowski have now said they will vote against Pete Hegseth. Are you worried about his confirmation, and your reaction? THE PRESIDENT: No. And no surprises there. It’s too bad. You know, it’s the way — the way it is. Too bad. Q And when would you adjourn Congress to make recess appointments, Mr. President? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I’d take a look at that. I’d listen to John Thune. He’s doing a fantastic job. We’re moving along. The Democrats are trying to delay government, as they always do. They can’t help themselves. Even John Ratcliffe, who’s very, very strong, very popular and liked by the Democrats — I guess, he gets a lot of Democrat votes — that’s taking a long time, and it shouldn’t be taking a long time. They — they’re maxing everything out so they can delay everything as much as possible. Q Does Senator Thune support an effort to use recess appointments if you choose to do that? THE PRESIDENT: I’d be willing to use recess appointments. It’s up to John. We’ll see. John Thune is a great guy, great senator, knows his stuff inside out and backwards. But I would use recess appointments if he wants to do that. Absolutely. (Cross-talk.) The Democrats are just delaying. They always delay. Q Mr. President, you spoke with the Saudi crown prince yesterday. THE PRESIDENT: Who? Q The Saudi crown prince. THE PRESIDENT: Yes. Q How was the — the call? THE PRESIDENT: Great. It was great. Q And they said $600 million — billion dollar they can invest? THE PRESIDENT: Six hundred. I’ll ask them for a trillion. Q You said you’re going to ask them for a trillion. Will Saudi Arabia be the first foreign country you will visit, since they’re investing that much money? THE PRESIDENT: Well, if they do that, I would, yeah. Q You would? THE PRESIDENT: I would be glad to do that. I did it, as you know, four years ago. We did $450 billion — meaning the money all goes to American companies — and they purchased jets and they purchased computers and everything else. And we did $450 billion, and I guess we’re at $600, $650. (Cross-talk.) And I’ll see if I can talk them into a trillion. Q And on the Middle East again. You showed great confidence in Steve Witkoff. Why you said that you doubt that the ceasefire in Gaza will — will hold since you appraised his efforts? THE PRESIDENT: Well, no, I think he’s great. But it’s a very tricky place. It’s very tricky. And we’ll see. And if it — if something does happen, they will not be happy. Q Sir, follow-up on that one. In terms of Steve Witkoff, are you going to put him in charge of — of Iran strategy? And do you want him talking directly with the Iranians? THE PRESIDENT: No, but he — he certainly is somebody I would use. He’s done a fantastic job. He’s a great negotiator. He’s a very good person, great — a very popular person. Gets along with people. I have great negotiators. They — they have no personality whatsoever, and then I have some that do. Steve has a wonderful way about him and people like him. And even in this case, both sides like him, and he was able to make a deal. That deal would have never been made without Steve. The Biden people couldn’t make the deal. They were working on it for a year and a half. They couldn’t make a deal. We got it done prior to the inauguration. We said it has to be before the inauguration. I mean, the deal should hold, but if it doesn’t hold, there’ll be a lot of problems. (Cross-talk.) Q Related to your AI EO. Just hours after you made that big Stargate announcement, Elon Musk tweeted that they don’t actually have the money. Is that true? THE PRESIDENT: I don’t know if they do, but, you know, they’re putting up the money. The government is not putting up anything. They’re putting up money. They’re very rich people, so I hope they do. And, I mean, Elon doesn’t like one of those people. So, (inaudible). (Cross-talk.) Q Are you worried that AI is going to replace many American jobs? THE PRESIDENT: No. Q Does that worry you? THE PRESIDENT: No, no. It’s going to create tremendous numbers of jobs. It’s going to also create a lot of benefits, medically, for cancer research and other things. It’s going to have a huge positive impact. And, you know, we want to be ahead of China. We’re, right now, way ahead of China. David Sacks is one of the all-time experts. You know, that — people are amazed that he — you just met him. I don’t know if he’s still here. MR. SACKS: (Inaudible.) THE PRESIDENT: There he is. But — but one of the most respected people in that world. It’s a world. That’s a whole different world. And we’re ahead of China now because of what I’m doing, and I think it’s going to be very successful. (Cross-talk.) Q On NATO spending, please. You just asked the Davos forum again that NATO countries should spend 5 percent of GDP on defense. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q The United States don’t spend 5 percent. THE PRESIDENT: Well, I — I don’t think so, no. Q Do you think it should also apply to the United States? THE PRESIDENT: We’re protecting them, you know? They’re not protecting us. We’re protecting them. So, I don’t think we should be spending — I’m not sure we should be spending anything, but we should certainly be helping them. But they should — they should up their 2 percent to 5 percent, yeah. Q Mr. President — Mr. President, you said earlier during your speech at Davos that you would like to see interest rates come down. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q How much would you like to see them come down? THE PRESIDENT: A lot. Q And will you talk with Powell? THE PRESIDENT: I’d like to see them come down a lot, and oil prices will come down. And when oil prices come down, everything is going to be cheaper for the American people — and actually for the world — but for the American people. So, I’d like to see oil prices come down. And when the energy comes down, that’s going to knock out a lot of the inflation. That’s going to automatically bring the interest rates down. Q Are you worried that it’s too much going on at once if you’re — Q Mr. President, you said that you would demand — Q Are you worried that there’s too much going on at once if you’re trying to bring interest rates down and — THE PRESIDENT: No, no. Q — get the economy back going? THE PRESIDENT: No. It just works that way. I mean, it just economically works that way. When the oil comes down, it’ll bring down prices, then you won’t have inflation, and then the interest rates will come down. (Inaudible.) (Cross-talk.) Q You said that you would demand that the interest rates come down. THE PRESIDENT: Well, I would put in — Q Do you expect — THE PRESIDENT: I would put in a strong statement. Q Do you expect the Fed to listen to you? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q Are you going to talk to Powell about this and — bringing the rates down? THE PRESIDENT: At — at the right time, I would. Q Sir, do you plan to meet with any of the people you pardoned that were — participated in the January 6th, 2021, attack — do you plan to meet with any of them or meet with them at the White House? THE PRESIDENT: I don’t know. I’m sure that they probably would like to. I did — I did them something important. But what they did is they were protesting a crooked election. And, you know, I mean, people understand that also. And they were treated very badly. Nobody’s been treated like that. So, I’d be open to it, certainly. I — I don’t know of anything like that, but I think they — they’re going to — meeting some of the congresspeople — congressmen, -women — Q Have you spoken to them? THE PRESIDENT: — who want to — want to meet. But I’d certainly be open to it. Q Have you spoken to them since you issued the pardons? THE PRESIDENT: I haven’t spoken to any of them yet, but I know they’re very happy. (Cross-talk.) I gave them — I gave them their life back. Their life was taken away from them unnecessarily and unfairly. I gave them their life back. So, I can imagine they probably would like to. Q What did you mean when you said that Biden took bad advice in not pardoning himself yesterday? THE PRESIDENT: Well, he did. I think he did, because he — he pardoned all these people that are crooked as hell. Look, the congressmen, they’re crooked. What they did is they destroyed evidence. When you destroy evidence, especially criminally like that — they did it criminally. And the reason they destroyed the evidence is because it proved that I was right. They didn’t destroy evidence for no reason. They destroyed it because they found many documents saying that I offered 10,000 soldiers. If they had 500 soldiers or National Guard, there would have been no problem. If they had 200, that would have been — I offered 10,000, if they needed them — there would have been no problem. That’s been now totally disproven. And it’s also been disproven by Nancy Pelosi’s daughter, who has her on tape saying it was her fault, that she has full responsibility for this. But — and they have all that stuff. They destroyed everything, and they go through a year and a half, two years of nonsense, they come up with tremendous evidence, and they destroyed evidence. And Schiff knew about it. That’s why he’s on there. He knew all about the destruction of evidence. A lot of people said he’s the one that got them to do it. And he’s a crooked guy — you know? — totally crooked politician. And so, he’s pardoned, and some other people are pardoned. And these are crooked politicians, every one of them. Bennie Johnson [Thompson], what he did is incredible. I mean, he was the leader of the committee, and he did it. Cheney, Crying Adam Kinzinger, all of them — they destroyed evidence and deleted everything. There’s nothing with — there’s no evidence now. They’re crooked politicians, and they should be punished. You know, that’s — even in a civil trial, you go to jail for a thing like that. They destroyed every document, from what I understand — every document — because it proved that I was totally innocent. Q Do you plan to send up to 10,000 troops to the southern border, sir? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Oh, southern border? Q Yes, the border. THE PRESIDENT: When you say “southern border” — when I said “10,000 troops,” I was referring to the Capitol. Q Oh, I see. A- — and when does that — THE PRESIDENT: No, no, you got it wrong. I was referring — Q When do you plan — THE PRESIDENT: — to the Cap- — Q When do you plan to do that? THE PRESIDENT: I offered 10,000 troops to the Capitol before January 6th. Q And as for the 1,500 at the southern border, sir, to clarify, what exactly do you want them to be doing right now? THE PRESIDENT: Making sure that the border is safe and secure and that criminals don’t come into our country. Q Mr. President, do you think that sanctions on Russia will force President Putin to negotiate? THE PRESIDENT: I don’t know, but I think he should make a deal. Q Mr. President, does it bother you that Elon Musk criticized a deal that you made publicly, that he said — that he tweeted that? THE PRESIDENT: No, it doesn’t. He hates one of the people in the deal. So — Q Have you spoken to him since then? THE PRESIDENT: No, no. I’ve — well, I’ve spoken Elon but — Q Not about that? THE PRESIDENT: I’ve spoken to all of them, actually. No, no. The people in the deal are very, very smart people. But Elon, one of the people he happens to hate. But I have certain hatreds of people too — Q Sir — THE PRESIDENT: — you know? Q Sir, on China. What do you think Xi Jinping can do on the Ukraine-Russia war? THE PRESIDENT: Which one? Q Ukraine-Rus- — -Russia war. What can Xi Jinping do about that? THE PRESIDENT: China? Q Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: They have a lot of power over Russia. They supply energy to Russia, and Russia supplies energy to them. They supply other things to — you know, it — it’s really a very big trade. It’s a very big trading partner. But Russia supplies a lot of energy to China, China pays them a lot of money for that, and I think they have a lot of power over Russia. So, I think Russia should want to make a deal. Maybe they want to make a deal. I think, from what I hear, Putin would like to see me, and we’ll meet as soon as we can. I’d — I’d meet immediately. Every day we don’t meet, soldiers are being killed in a battlefield, and that battl- — battlefield is like no battlefield since World War II. That’s a — Q You said that U- — Ukraine wants to — THE PRESIDENT: And I have — I have pictures that you don’t want to see. Soldiers are being killed on a daily basis at numbers that we haven’t seen in decades. And it would be nice to end that war. It’s a ridiculous war. Q You said that Ukraine is ready to make a deal. Did President Zelenskyy tell you that at — personally? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, sure. He’s ready to negotiate a deal. He’d like to stop. He’s a — he’s somebody that lost a lot of soldiers, and so did Russia — lost a lot. I mean, Russia lost more soldiers. They lost 800,000 soldiers. Would you say that’s a lot? I’d say it’s a lot. (Cross-talk.) Q Mr. President, you said that you wanted to make Dr. King’s dream a reality. What’s your response to his children and civil rights leaders who say that your DEI orders are a contradiction of his dream and could further drive racial disparities? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I haven’t heard that. Q Mr. President, you put the Houthis back on the terror list. How do you see the war in Yemen end now? THE PRESIDENT: Well, we’ll see what happens, but they can’t shoot down our ships — the Houthis. Q Yes. THE PRESIDENT: And that — you can’t shoot down our ships or any ships, and that’s what they’ve been doing. So, they’re on the terror list, and — Q Mr. President — THE PRESIDENT: — that’s not good for them. Q Mr. President — Q Sir, why did you revoke security protections for former Secretary of State Mi- — Mike Pompeo and — and Brian Hook? THE PRESIDENT: Well, the same reason I do — when you, you know, have protection, you can’t have it for the rest of your life. Do you want to have a large detail of people guarding people for the rest of their lives? I mean, there’s risks to everything. Q Do you think a former presidents should (inaudible) — Q Sir, would you support striking Iran’s nuclear facilities? THE PRESIDENT: Say it? Q Would you support Israel, for example, striking Iran’s nuclear facilities? Or do you — THE PRESIDENT: Well, I’m not going to answer that. Q — believe in diplomacy? THE PRESIDENT: Obviously, I’m not going to answer that question. We’ll have to see. I — I’m going to be meeting with various people over the next couple of days, and we’ll see. But hopefully that can be worked out without having to worry about it. It would be nice — it would really be nice if that could be worked out without having to go that further step. Q And who are you going to meet with, if I — if I may ask? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I’d rather not say that, but very high-level people. But hopefully that could be worked out. You know, look, Iran, hopefully, will be — make a deal. And if they don’t make a deal, I guess that’s okay too. Q And, Mr. President, just to follow up, you said you think the Fed should listen to you. Can you elaborate on why you think it should? THE PRESIDENT: With regard to interest rates? Q Correct, yes. THE PRESIDENT: Because I think I know interest rates much better than they do, and I think I know it certainly much better than the one who’s primarily in charge of making that decision. But, no, I’m guided by them very much, but if I disagree, I will let it be known. Q Mr. President — Q Sir, your tariffs planned for China and Mexico are much tougher — or the ones for Canada and Mexico are much tougher than the one for China. Why is it softer for China? THE PRESIDENT: Well, China is already paying a lot of tariffs because of me, and when you add them up, I would say, you know, they’re paying a lot. They paid hundreds of billions of dollars. They never paid 10 cents until I came along. When I came along, they pay hundreds of — they’ve paid hundreds of billions of dollars. Never paid anything. And so, they’ve already started at a higher base. Q Is February 1st — Q Sir, about the border — Q — the date for Chinese tariffs as well, sir? February 1? Or was that just Mexico and Canada? THE PRESIDENT: It’s Mexico and Canada. But we’ll — we’re talking about China too. Look, China is sending us tremendous amounts of bad drugs: fentanyl — really bad stuff. Most of it comes through Mexico. And we’re losing, I s- — I think, 300,000 lives a year because of that. People say 150, 100, 120. I think 300,000 lives a year. Those are old numbers. The other — the lower number is a low number. And we can’t have that. They’ve got to stop sending it. I had a deal with President Xi, but it was a deal that wasn’t followed up by Biden, of course, where they were going to issue the death penalty to people that make fentanyl, and that would have stopped it. But we’ll have to stop it with tariffs. Okay? Thank you very much, everybody. Q So, is China (inaudible) — (Cross-talk.) THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Q Thank you, Mr. President. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. END 3:30 P.M. EST
THE WHITE HOUSE Office of Communications ________________________________________________________________ For Immediate Release U.S. Capitol Washington, D.C. 8:18 A.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. This is very beautiful, I must say. This is a beautiful place. And our country is starting to do very well again. It’s happening fast — a little faster than people thought. Thank you especially to Senator Marshall for the beautiful introduction. Appreciate it very much. Thank you. Great senator you are. I also want to thank a friend and a man of profound faith and tremendous patriotism who’s also become a great friend. You become much friendlier when you have a majority of two or three or four. Could even be five pretty soon. (Laughter.) But for a little while, it was one. That’s Mike Johnson, speaker. Thank you very much, Mike — very much. (Applause.) And thanks, as well to somebody who’s doing a fantastic job: Senator Thune. Thank you very much, Senator. (Applause.) It’s not easy. It’s not easy. It’s really great. And Leader Scalise — Steve, wherever you may be. I think you’re here someplace. There he is. A brave guy, too. A brave guy. I always say it. And Senator Chuck Schumer. Chuck, thank you very much. Thank you. Senator Hassan, thank you very much. Thank you. Very nice to see you. Congressman Jeffries, thank you. And many other very distinguished leaders in the room. Great, great group of people. If we could ever come together, it would be unbelievable. It may not happen, but it should and maybe it will. From the earliest days of our republic, faith in God has always been the ultimate source of the strength that beats in the hearts of our nation. We have to bring religion back. We have to bring it back much stronger. It’s one of the biggest problems that we’ve had over the last fairly long period of time. We have to bring it back. Thomas Jefferson himself once attended Sunday services held in the old House Chamber on the very ground where I stand today, so there could be nothing more beautiful than for us to gather in this majistic place — it is majestic — and reaffirm that America is and will always be “one nation under God.” At every stage of the American story, our country has drawn hope and courage and inspiration from our trust in the Almighty. Deep in the soul of every patriot is the knowledge that God has a special plan and a glorious mission for America. And that plan is going to happen. It’s going to happen. I hope it happens sooner rather than later. It’s going to happen. And it’s His hand that guides us every single step of the way. And all of you and the things we have to do is to see the defining role that faith and prayer have played in the life of our nation. And you just have to look at this building, and you can look at each other. You can really look at each other. It’s defined almost everyone in this room. I think faith has been very strong with the people in this room. Just steps away from here, in the Hall of Columns, is the statue of John Winthrop, who famously proclaimed that America would stand as “a city upon a hill, a light to all nations with the eyes of all people upon us.” Today, almost 400 years after that famous sermon, we see that with the Lord’s help, the city stands taller and shines brighter than ever before — or at least it soon will. In that same hall, we also find the statue of the great Roger Williams, who founded the state of Rhode Island, named its capital city Providence, and built the First Baptist Church in America. It’s Williams that we have to thank for making religious liberty part of the bedrock of American life. And today we must protect the fundamental freedom with absolute devotion. We must stand strong, just like generations of Americans have done on the battlefields all around the world. Feet away from the magnificent rotunda, another statue watches over visitors to the Capitol. George Washington, the founder of our country, often called for Americans to join together in prayer — very often. And more than two centuries later, this morning, we heed President Washington’s wisdom and follow in his mighty footsteps. He was a strong man and of great religious strength. The stories of legends like Washington, Winthrop, and Williams remind us that without faith in God, there would be no American story. Every citizen should be proud of this exceptional heritage. We have an unbelievable heritage, and we have to use that and make life better for everyone. That’s why, as we approach the 25th-times-10 anniversary — think of that, 250; 250 years we’ll be celebrating next year — of our country’s founding, I have signed an executive order to resume the process of creating a new national park full of statues of the greatest Americans who ever lived. We’re going to be honoring our heroes, honoring the greatest people from our country. We’re not going to be tearing down. We’re going to be building up. It will be called the National Garden of American Heroes. Some of you will be on that soon-to-be hallowed ground — some of you. Let’s see. I can pick a few of you right now by looking — (laughter) — because there’s a couple of you right now, I can see. Let’s see. (Laughter.) It’s the president’s sole opinion. (Laughter.) And I’ve given myself a 25-year period — (laughter) — and then somebody else. By that time, it will be very, very built up. (Laughter.) No, it will be something very special, and I hope that Congress will fully fund this wonderfully unifying project at the first possible opportunity — it’s not going to be a lot of money; going to be very important, however — so that more of our people can be inspired by the faith and courage of patriots like those who we honor in these halls. One of the incredible Americans whose memory my order will celebrate is also recognized with a statue in the Capitol, representing the great state of North Carolina, and that’s a man known — who everybody loved: Reverend Billy Graham. He was something. My father used to take me to watch the “Crusades.” He would take me to Yankee Stadium. I remember it so well. I remember it more than I remember any Yankee game, and I’ve seen a lot of Yankee games. (Laughter.) Can you believe it? And Billy didn’t have a bat, so, you know, he’s pretty good. It was amazing. You’d have 60- or 70,000 people, and they loved him. They loved him. I saw him with Franklin. I don’t know if Franklin is here. I just don’t know, but I’ve gotten to know Franklin. He’s done a great job with helping on tragedies, on problems like in North Carolina, California. He’s always the first one there. The work he does is — his father is very proud of him, I can tell you that. But Billy Graham was very special. One floor below us, Reverend Graham’s statue stands with an open Bible, the page turned to a letter from the apostle Paul, which reads, “Let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season, we will reap if we do not give up.” Never give up. Never ever give up. You can’t. How about me? If I would have given up, I would not be here right now. Who the hell knows where I’d be? (Laughter.) It might not be a good place. If it was up to the Democrats, it would not be a good place at all. (Laughter.) Never ever give up. There could be no better message for the leaders gathered here — and you are real leaders — that we must never give up, and we must never grow tired. We must never grow weary, and we always must practice good. As you know, last week, only a few miles from here, our nation witnessed a terrible tragedy when 67 people were killed in a horrible accident near Reagan Airport. As one nation, we take solace in the knowledge that their journey that night did not end in the icy waters of the Potomac, but in the warm embrace of a very loving God. None of us knows exactly when our time on Earth will be over. You never know. A truth I confronted a few short months ago when there was an incident that wasn’t — it was not fun. It was not a good thing. But God was watching me. The chances of me being here — my sons are shooters. They’re really good shooters, Don and Eric. And they said the chances of missing from that range with that gun are — but Don equated it to a one-foot putt. That’s pretty bad. Two feet I can see missing. (Laughter.) But one foot you can’t miss. It was the equivalent of a one-foot putt, is what he told me. He said — in fact, he gained some religion. He gained — he went up 25 percent. (Laughter.) And if you know him, that’s a lot. (Laughter.) But he said, “There had to be somebody that saved you, and I think I know who it is.” And he looked up. And I said, “Whoa, Don, that’s come — you’ve come a long way.” (Laughter.) He’s a good guy. But they my two sons just really couldn’t believe it. Had I not turned that right turn just at that time — and the audience — 55,000 people standing this way. There were just a few people in the back on the bleachers. There was nobody over there, except for my all-time favorite chart in history, a chart on immigration. Immigration saved my life. See? So, we’re going to be good for immigration, okay? But had I not made that turn — boom — and quickly. It was almost as though a deer bolted. You know, they say the only way you miss when you’re a good shot is if it bolts? I bolted. I turned to the right to look at the chart, and I said, “Wow, what was that? What was that?” So, you never know, but God did that. I mean, it had to be. The chances of turning, because there’s no reason to turn to the right. You know, the chart is rarely brought down. I brought it down maybe 20 percent and — 20 percent of the time. And it’s never on my right. It’s always on my left. And it’s always at the end of the speech, never the beginning of the speech. And if I was a little more than that 90-degree angle, it would be no good. And if I was a little less, it would be no good. It had to be perfect. The thing went “shhh” right along the edge. It didn’t affect my hair. Can you believe that? (Laughter.) It might’ve touched it. Might have touched it, but not where it counts, not — (laughter) — not the skin part. But it changed something in me, I feel. I feel even stronger. I believed in God, but I feel much more strongly about it. Something happened. And so — (applause) — thank you. Thank you. But that event, like the tragedy last week, should remind us all that we have to make the most out of every single day that we have. Who would think that you’re in space and two things collide? The odds of that happening are so small, even without proper control. We should have had the proper control. We should have had better equipment. We don’t. We have obsolete equipment. They were understaffed, for whatever reason. I guess the helicopter was high, and we’ll find out exactly what happened. But the odds, even if you had nothing — if you had nobody, the odds of that happening are extremely small. It’s like, did you ever see — you go to a driving range in golf and you’re hitting balls, hundreds of balls, thousands of hours. I never see a ball hit another ball. Balls going up all over the place. You never see them hit. It was amazing that that could happen. There was a lot of mistakes made, and it should have never happened. But regardless of that, it’s amazing that it happened. And I think that’s going to be used for good. I think what is going to happen is we’re all going to sit down and do a great computerized system for our control towers, brand-new — not pieced together, obsolete, like it is — land-based — trying to hook up a land-based system to a satellite system. And the first thing that some experts told me when this happened is you can’t hook up land to satellites, and you can’t hook up satellites to land. It doesn’t work. And we spent billions and billions of dollars trying to renovate an old, broken system, instead of just saying, “Cut it loose, and let’s spend less money and build a great system.” Done by two or three companies — very s- — good companies, specialists. That’s all it is. They used 39 companies. That means that 39 different hookups have to happen. And I don’t know how many people of you are good in terms of all of the kind of things necessary for that — and it’s very complex stuff — but when you have 39 different companies working on hooking up different cities and different people — you need one company with one set of equipment. And there are some countries that have unbelievable air controller systems, and they would have — bells would have gone off when that helicopter literally even hit the same height, because it traveled a long distance before it hit. It was just like — just wouldn’t stop — you follow the line. But bells and whistles would have gone off. They have them where it actually could virtually turn the thing around. It would have just never happened if we had the right equipment. And one of the things that’s going to be — I’m going to be speaking to John and to Mike and to Chuck and to everybody. We have to get together and just — as a single bill, just pass where we get the — the best control system. When I land in my plane, privately, I use a system from another country, because my captain tells me — I’m landing in New York, and I’m using — I won’t tell you what country, but I use a system from another country, because the captain says, “This thing is so bad. It’s so obsolete.” And we can’t have that. So, we’re going to have the best system and it’s a lot of money, but it’s not that much money. And it’ll happen fast, and it’ll be done by total professionals. And when it’s done, you’re not going to have accidents. It’s just not — they’re not — they’re virtually not possible to have. Each of us is blessed with a precious chance to help lead America to renew our pledges of faith and everything else and bring us to new heights and create a future of promise for our people and for ourselves. You know, we have the most important people in the country, in a true sense, here, because you’re the ones that are going to make the decision. You’re the ones that are leading us into so many different things, whether it’s the right air control system or the right size military or what to do and what not to do — most important people. And many of you are very religious. I know so many of you are very religious. And I just think that our country has been so badly hurt. We’re very hurt by what COVID did to religion. It really hurt it badly. People couldn’t go to church for a long period of time. Even going outside, they were given a hard time. And I’m not blaming anybody for that, but — but it was very hard to gather. So, they start using computers, if that. And when they come back, it’s just, you know, a whole new experience they have to get used to. But it is starting to come back. We had a fantastic thing happen yesterday. The Army had the best recruitment numbers that they’ve had in more than 15 years. They think it could be 25 years, actually — they’re going to probably put that out — but more than 15 years just now. (Applause.) And we were worried about it. We were talking about it numerous times that, you know, we don’t have people joining our military services. We don’t have people joining our police force. We have to cherish our police. It’s so dangerous. You open a car and somebody starts shooting. They have blackened windows. You don’t even have any idea who’s in the car. Oftentimes, they have the dark windows — which they’re not, in theory, supposed to have, but they have them. The door opens and a gun is pointed at your face, and you can’t do a thing about it. It’s just nothing you’re going to do about it. Your friends will take them out, and it’s happened so many times, but you just — it’s so — such a dangerous thing. We have to cherish these people. So, today, we join our hearts and prayers in recommitting to putting our country first. We have to put our country first, making America stronger and greater and more exceptional than ever before. And we have to make religion a much more important factor now. We have to make it an important factor. And if we do that, it’s going to be — our job is just going to be much easier. It unifies people. It brings people together. Democrats are going to be able to have lunch again and dinner with Republicans. And I remember, just as — growing up, I’d see — you know, I revered senators and congressmen as something very special, but they were out to dinner all the time. We had an old congressman, maybe some of — Sey Halpern from Queens, and he was a friend of my father. But he’d have dinner with — he was a Democrat, but he would have dinner with Republicans, and he’d be at it. It wouldn’t even make a difference. Today, it’s like shocking. And it shouldn’t be. You have to get together. We really have to get together. We all know what’s right and what’s wrong, and there’s going to be compromise on both sides, but we have to just do the right thing, and we have to get together. You did it with Marco Rubio. He got everybody who was — 99 votes. And the only vote was our VP, who — who maybe we should have been there just to make it a hundred, but I think I would have been angered if it was a hundred. That might be a step too far, right? (Laughter.) But, no, it was great to see a vote. Pam Bondi had support from Democrats, and some of the others had some pretty good support. So, you know, it’s doable. We had a recent bill having to do with a very beautiful young lady who was killed from Georgia, and that bill was very bipartisan. It was a very beautiful thing to watch, actually. And so, I think we just have to — if possible, we have to unify. There’s big division. I mean, some people want an open border and some people want a closed border. We want it closed, and they want it open. Now, that’s a big difference. How do you solve that problem? It’s a big difference. Some people want men in women’s sports and some people don’t. And I was with somebody yesterday who was so upset that the bill was signed, where men cannot participate in women’s sports. And I said — he’s a very smart guy — went to a great school, was a great student. And he actually feels, you know, that that should happen: Men should be able to play — meaning transition into women sports. And you talk to him, and it’s just — you know, I don’t understand it. I think it — I don’t understand how the problem ever got started in the first place. It just seems so simple. But he’s a good person and just believes it. He just believes it. Not going to be easy to convince him otherwise. So, where is a middle ground? It’s just hard to have a middle ground if there’s two ways. I mean, you can either do it or you can’t. But I think a lot of good things are going to happen. You know, a lot of people might be surprised to hear me say that, of all people, but I think a lot of good things are going to happen. Because our country has got some big headaches, but we have tremendous spirit right now. The spirit is as high as it’s been. It was up 49 points this morning — 49 points. That’s the biggest increase in the history of whatever the poll was. So, the spirit is there. That’s a big factor. That’s probably the hardest thing to get back, to be honest. The rest is easy. The rest is easy. So, I want to just thank you all. I want to congratulate a lot of the new members. I see so many of you that ran great races. David, that was a great race. But so many that ran great races. And on both sides, you ran some incredible races. So, it’s good to be with you. And God bless everybody. We want to come together. And the happiest — the person, the element, the everything that’s going to be happy. People of religion are going to be happy again. And I really believe you can’t be happy without religion, without that belief. I really believe it. I just don’t see how you can be. (Applause.) So, let’s bring religion back. Let’s bring God back into our lives. Thank you all very much. Thank you very much. Great honor. Thank you. (Applause.) END 8:42 A.M. EST
REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP AT THE WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM Via Teleconference 11:06 A.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: Well, thank you very much, Klaus. And hello to everyone in beautiful Davos. This has been a truly historic week in the United States. Three days ago, I took the oath of office, and we began the golden age of America. The recent presidential election was won by millions of votes and all seven — every one of them — all seven swing states. It was a massive mandate from the American people like hasn’t been seen in many years. And some of the political pundits, even some of my so-called enemies, said it was the most consequential election victory in 129 years. That’s quite nice. What the world has witnessed in the past 72 hours is nothing less than a revolution of common sense. Our country will soon be stronger, wealthier, and more united than ever before, and the entire planet will be more peaceful and prosperous as a result of this incredible momentum and what we’re doing and going to do. My administration is acting with unprecedented speed to fix the disasters we’ve inherited from a totally inept group of people and to solve every single crisis facing our country. This begins with confronting the economic chaos caused by the failed policies of the last administration. Over the past four years, our government racked up $8 trillion in wasteful deficit spending and inflicted nation-wrecking energy restrictions, crippling regulations, and hidden taxes like never before. The result is the worst inflation crisis in modern history and sky-high interest rates for our citizens and even throughout the world. Food prices and the price of almost every other thing known to mankind went through the roof. President Biden totally lost control of what was going on in our country but, in particular, with our high-inflation economy and at our border. Because of these ruinous policies, total government spending this year is $1.5 trillion higher than was projected to occur when I left office just four years ago. Likewise, the cost of servicing the debt is more than 230 percent higher than was projected in 2020. The inflation rate we are inheriting remains 50 percent higher than the historic target. It was the highest inflation probably in the history of our country. That’s why, from the moment I took office, I’ve taken rapid action to reverse each and every one of these radical left policies that created this calamity — in particular, with immigration, crime, and inflation. On day one, I signed an executive order directing every member of my Cabinet to marshal all powers at their disposal to defeat inflation and reduce the cost of daily life. I imposed a federal hiring freeze, a federal regulation freeze, a foreign aid freeze, and I created the new Department of Government Efficiency. I terminated the ridiculous and incredibly wasteful Green New Deal — I call it the “Green New Scam”; withdrew from the one-sided Paris Climate Accord; and ended the insane and costly electric vehicle mandate. We’re going to let people buy the car they want to buy. I declared a national em- — energy emergency — and it’s so important — national energy emergency to unlock the liquid gold under our feet and pave the way for rapid approvals of new energy infrastructure. The United States has the largest amount of oil and gas of any country on Earth, and we’re going to use it. Not only will this reduce the cost of virtually all goods and services, it will make the United States a manufacturing superpower and the world capital of artificial intelligence and crypto. My administration has also begun the largest deregulation campaign in history, far exceeding even the record-setting efforts of my last term. In total, the Biden administration imposed $50,000 in additional regulatory costs on the average American household over the last four years. I have promised to eliminate 10 old regulations for every new regulation, which will soon put many thousands of dollars back in the pockets of American families. To further unleash our economy, our majorities in the House and Senate — which we also took, along with the presidency — are going to pass the largest tax cut in American history, including massive tax cuts for workers and family and big tax cuts for domestic producers and manufacturers. And we’re working with the Democrats on getting an extension of the original Trump tax cuts, as you probably know by just reading any paper. My message to every business in the world is very simple: Come make your product in America, and we will give you among the lowest taxes of any nation on Earth. We’re bringing them down very substantially, even from the original Trump tax cuts. But if you don’t make your product in America, which is your prerogative, then, very simply, you will have to pay a tariff — differing amounts, but a tariff — which will direct hundreds of billions of dollars and even trillions of dollars into our Treasury to strengthen our economy and pay down debt. Under the Trump administration, there will be no better place on Earth to create jobs, build factories, or grow a company than right here in the good old USA. Already, American’s economic — and you can see this, I think, maybe even in your — in your wonderful, wonderful room that you’re all gathered together — so many of my friends — but, Americans, the economic confidence is soaring like we haven’t seen in many, many decades, maybe not at all. Upon my election, it was just announced that small-business optimism skyrocketed by 41 points in a single month. That’s the highest ever. There’s never been anything like that. SoftBank has announced between a $100 and $200 billion investment in the U.S. economy because of the election result. And just two days ago, Oracle, SoftBank, and OpenAI announced a $500 billion investment in AI infrastructure. Other companies, likewise, have announced billions and billions and billions — adding up to trillions — of investment in America, in the United States. And it’s also reported today in the papers that Saudi Arabia will be investing at least $600 billion in America. But I’ll be asking the crown prince, who’s a fantastic guy, to round it out to around $1 trillion. I think they’ll do that because we’ve been very good to them. And I’m also going to ask Saudi Arabia and OPEC to bring down the cost of oil. You got to bring it down, which, frankly, I’m surprised they didn’t do before the election. That didn’t show a lot of love by them not doing it. I was a little surprised by that. If the price came down, the Russia-Ukraine war would end immediately. Right now, the price is high enough that that war will continue. You got to bring down the oil price; you’re going to end that war. They should have done it long ago. They’re very responsible, actually, to a certain extent, for what’s taking place — millions of lives are being lost. With oil prices going down, I’ll demand that interest rates drop immediately. And, likewise, they should be dropping all over the world. Interest rates should follow us. All over, the progress that you’re seeing is happening because of our historic victory in a recent presidential election, one that has become quite well known throughout the world. I think a lot of things are happening to a lot of countries. They say that there’s light shining all over the world since the election. And even countries that we aren’t particularly friendly with are happy because they understand what — there is a future and th- — how great the future will be. Under our leadership, America is back and open for business. And this week, I’m also taking swift action to stop the invasion at our southern border. They allowed people to come in at levels that nobody has ever seen before. It was ridiculous. I decided a — and declared to dec- — to — to do — and very, very importantly — a national emergency on our border; immediately halted all entry of illegal border crossers, of which there were many; and began properly returning the illegal trespassers back to the place from which they came. That action, as you’ve probably seen, has already started very strongly. I have deployed active-duty U.S. military and National Guard troops to the border to assist in repelling the invasion. It was really an invasion. We will not allow our territory to be violated. After four long years, the United States is strong and sovereign and a beautiful nation once again. It’s a strong, sovereign nation. In addition, I’m pleased to report that America is also a free nation once again. On day one, I signed an executive order to stop all government censorship. No longer will our government label the speech of our own citizens as misinformation or disinformation, which are the favorite words of censors and those who wish to stop the free exchange of ideas and, frankly, progress. We have saved free speech in America, and we’ve saved it strongly. With another historic executive order this week, I also ended the weaponization of law enforcement against the American people — and, frankly, against politicians — and restored the fair, equal, and impartial rule of law. My administration has taken action to abolish all discriminatory diversity, equity, and inclusion nonsense — and these are policies that were absolute nonsense — throughout the government and the private sector. With the recent, yet somewhat unexpected, great Supreme Court decision just made, America will once again become a merit-based country. You have to hear that word: merit-based country. And I’ve made it official — an official policy of the United States that there are only two genders, male and female, and we will have no men participating in women’s sports, and transgender operations, which became the rage, will occur very rarely. Finally, as we restore common sense in America, we’re moving quickly to bring back strength and peace and stability abroad. I’m also going to ask all NATO nations to increase defense spending to 5 percent of GDP, which is what it should have been years ago — it was only at 2 percent, and most nations didn’t pay until I came along; I insisted that they pay, and they did — because the United States was really paying the difference at that time, and it’s — it was unfair to the United States. But many, many things have been unfair for many years to the United States. Before even taking office, my team negotiated a ceasefire agreement in the Middle East, which wouldn’t have happened without us, as I think most of the people in the room know. Earlier this week, the hostages began to return to their families. They are returning, and it’s a beautiful sight. And they’ll be coming in more and more. They started coming back on Sunday. Our efforts to secure a peace settlement between Russia and Ukraine are now, hopefully, underway. It’s so important to get that done. That is an absolute killing field. Millions of soldiers are being killed. Nobody has seen anything like it since World War II. They’re laying dead all over the flat fields. It’s a flat field — farmland, and there’s millions of Russians and millions of Ukrainians. Nobody’s seen anything like it since World War II. It’s time to end it. And here in America, we have big events coming up. Next year we have the 250th anniversary of America’s founding. I’m so honored to be president during that. That’s been a big event. They’ve been talking about it for 10 years. We also have the World Cup, and I understand Gianni — Gianni is in the room — Infantino. He was very instrumental in helping us get it — he’s there with you someplace, I think — and I want to thank him for that. And then we have the Olympics coming up, which I was instrumental in getting, also, in my first term. And who would have known that by skipping a term, I would get the Olympics? I was upset. I said, “You know, I got the Olympics to come and I won’t be president.” But it turned out, through a stroke of luck or whatever you might call it, that I’m going to be president during the World Cup and the Olympics and the 250th anniversary. So, that’s going to be three big events. And we’ve accomplished more in less than four days — we have really been working — four days — than other administrations have accomplished in four years, and we’re just getting started. It’s really an amazing thing to see, and the spirit and the light over our country has been incredible. Under the last administration, our nation has suffered greatly, but we are going to bring it back and make it greater, bigger, stronger, better than ever before. I want to thank everybody for being with you. I would have been there myself, except the inauguration was two days ago. I thought it might be a little bit quick to make it the first stop, but we’ll get there one day. We hope to get there. But I — I do appreciate — I heard the audience is fantastic, and many of my friends are in the audience. And I will be taking questions now from some very distinguished people. Thank you all very much. (Applause.) MR. BRENDE: Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for that very powerful speech, and I think you could hear the applause all the way from Davos to the White House. But next year, it will be even better, because then you can get the applause here in Davos. So, we wish you welcome to our village next year. We hope to see you. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. MR. BRENDE: So, we also know, Mr. President, that you open up for interaction here. We have a great panel with some of the most distinguished businesspeople in the world. Let me start with someone that you know really well, that I think is almost a neighbor of you in Mal-a- — in — in Florida, Mr. Steve Schwarzman, chairman, CEO, and cofounder of Blackstone Group. So, Steve, floor is yours. MR. SCHWARZMAN: Well, Mr. President — THE PRESIDENT: Hello, Steve. MR. SCHWARZMAN: — I’m sure the crown prince of Saudi Arabia will be really glad you gave this speech today. (Laughter.) THE PRESIDENT: I hope so. MR. SCHWARZMAN: You’ve had the busiest four days that anybody can imagine, and congratulations for that. And my question is — is about some of the things I’ve observed here at Davos. It’s a terrific forum. I’ve met lots of people, as usual. I think I’ve been here 30 years. And a lot of the European businesspeople have expressed enormous frustration with the regulatory regime in the EU, and they attribute slower growth rates here because of numerous factors, but especially because of regulations. And you’ve taken a completely different approach in this area. And if you could explain the theory of what you’re doing, how you’re going to do it, and what you expect the outcome to be, I’d appreciate it. THE PRESIDENT: Well, thank you very much. And congratulations, Steve — you’re a friend of mine — but on a great career. You have had an amazing career and continues. So, I just want to congratulate you. Very inspirational to a lot of people. I want to talk about the EU, because you mentioned specifically that I’ve also had a lot of friends and leaders of countries. I’ve gotten to know them all my first term and a little bit during this period of four years and know them well, like them a lot, but they’re very frustrated because of the time everything seems to take to get approved — environmental impact statements for things that you shouldn’t even have to do that, and many, many other ways that it takes. And I’m going to give you a quick little example. I w- — in the private life, my beautiful private life — before I had all these things happening — the world is a little different — I had a nice, simple life. You knew that. But when I had that simple life, I did projects, and I had a big project in Ireland, and it had to get approval on something that would have made it even better. And I got the approval from Ireland in a period of a week, and it was a very, very, very efficient, good approval. And they informed me, though, “The problem is you’re going to have to get it from the EU, and we think that’ll take five to six years.” And I said, “You have to be kidding.” And this was before politics. And I said, “Wait a minute. It’s not that important. I don’t want to go five or six years.” But it would have been a big investment. It would have been nice, and it would have been good for the project. And I sent the people to the EU to see if they could speed it up, and basically it was a five- or six-year wait just to get a simple approval that Ireland gave me in a period of, literally, not much more than a week. And I realized right then — that was the first time I really was involved with the EU, but I realized right then, that’s a problem, and I didn’t even bother applying to do it, and — or if I did, I pulled it very quickly. I don’t wa- — I have to be very accurate, because I don’t want to be criticized. “He did apply, actually.” No, I want to be very accurate. So, I don’t think I did, but if I did, I pulled it very quickly. It was just something you — you couldn’t wait five years or six years to get an approval. So, a lot of — in a very big business sense, a lot of people are — are claiming that’s the problem. From the standpoint of America, the EU treats us very, very unfairly, very badly. They have a large tax that we know about and — a VAT tax — and it’s a very substantial one. They don’t take our far- — essentially, don’t take our farm products and they don’t take our cars. Yet, they send cars to us by the millions. They put tariffs on things that we want to do, like, for instance, I think they actually — in terms of these are noneconomic or nonmonetary tariffs, and — and those are very bad, and they make it very difficult to bring products into Europe, and yet they expect to be selling and they do sell their products in the United States. So, we have, you know, hundreds of billions of dollars of deficits with the EU, and nobody is happy with it. And we’re going to do something about it, but nobody is happy with it. So, I think the EU has to speed up their process. Friends of mine that are in some of the nations within the EU, great people, they — they want to be able to compete better, and you can’t compete when you can’t get — go through the approval process fast. There’s no reason why it can’t go faster. So, you know, I’m — I’m trying to be constructive, because I love Europe. I love the countries of Europe. But the process is a very cumbersome one, and th- — and they do treat the United States of America very, very unfairly with the VAT taxes and all of the other taxes they impose. One other — just to finish up, I got a call from the head of a major airline, one of the biggest airlines in the world. And he said, “Sir, could you help us?” “What?” “Landing in Europe is brutal. They charge us fees for everything, and it’s so unfair.” I said, “How does it compare to China?” He said, “It’s — it’s much worse.” And the other thing, as you know, they took court cases with Apple, and they supposedly won a case that most people didn’t think was much of a case. They won $15 or $16 billion from Apple. They won billions from Google. I think they’re after Facebook for billions and billions. These are American companies. Whether you like them or not, they’re — they’re American companies, and they shouldn’t be doing that. And that’s — as far as I’m concerned, it’s a form of taxation. So, we have some very big complaints with the EU. Thank you. MR. BRENDE: Tha- — thank you very much, Mr. President. We’ll now go to one of your friends in the EU, Patrick Pouyanné. He’s the chairman and CEO of TotalEnergies. I guess you have a question ready, Patrick, for the president. MR. POUYANNÉ: Mr. President, as we understand, energy is at the top of your agenda, and it’s an honor for me to represent the energy industry tonight in this panel. TotalEnergies is indeed the fourth largest oil and gas and electricity company in the world. I will not ask you a question about the oil price. It’s quite clear what you expect from us. I will more go to gas more. And we, our company, is the largest, number one exporter LNG from the U.S. company. We are a strong contributor to and we invest in mammoth LNG projects in Texas, $20 billion. It’s far from $200, but it’s $20 billion. And we contribute with that to security of supply to Europe as we export this LNG to Europe. Some experts fear that if there are too many projects developed in the U.S. on LNG, this could have an inflat- — inflationary impact on the U.S. domestic gas price, and they recommend a pause on these projects. I would ask you the following question: What are your views on — about such a pause on investments on LNG in the U.S.? What would happen if you would observe an increased domestic gas price because of these exports? And final question, which is important for Europe: Would you agree to guarantee security of supplies of U.S. LNG to Europe? THE PRESIDENT: Well, on the last part of your question, yes, I would. I would make sure that you get it. If we make a deal, we make a deal; you’ll get it. Because a lot of people do have that problem. They make a deal, and then it can’t get supplied because of war-type problems and other problems. So, we would absolutely do that. LNG is very interesting, because when I took office for the first term, one of the first things I looked at was two — there were two very massive plants in Louisiana, a state that has been very good to me. I won it by many, many points, and I felt strongly indebted to it, actually. And they said there are two plants that have been under environmental consideration for more than 10 years, and they were costing — as you say, you know how expensive those plants are — but they were costing like $12 billion and, I think, $14 or $15 billion. But they couldn’t get their permits. It was — they were in review for years — many, many years — like a decade or more. And I said, “So ridiculous.” I know so much about that, because in the construction industry, I had to go through it too, but I got good at it after a while. But I — I went — I saw the projects, and you’re talking about a total investment of $25 to $30 billion, and it looked like it was going to end. They couldn’t get their permits, and I got them done in less than a week. It was done, completed. In fact, when they called them to announce that it was done, the countries — largely countries — Japan was involved and — and another country and some very big investors — they couldn’t believe it. They actually couldn’t believe it. And I said, “Just do yourself one favor. Don’t pay any consultants, because the only one that got it done was me.” I got it done because it was the right thing to do for the U.S. and for the world, but the consultants had nothing to do with it, you know? The consultants go in and they say, “Give us millions of dollars because Trump did it.” Nobody called me about it. I just heard it was a problem for years, and I got it done because it was the right thing to do for the U.S. and the right thing to do for beyond. It had to do with energy — very important. So, I think it’s very important. I think the — the — you know, I disagree with one. I think the more that you do, the lower the price is going to go. And what I’d like to see is rapid approvals. We’re going to give very rapid approvals in the United States, like with the AI plants, talking to — many people want to build them. That’s going to be a very big thing. We’re going to build electric generating facilities — they are going to build. I’m going to get them the approval. Under emergency declaration, I can get the approvals done myself without having to go through years of waiting. And the big problem is we need double the energy we currently have in the United States — can you imagine? — for AI to really be as big as we want to have it. Because it’s a very competitive — it will be very competitive with China and others. So, I’m going to give emergency declarations so that they can start building them almost immediately. And I’m — I’m — I think it was largely my idea, because nobody thought this was possible. It wasn’t that they were not smart, because they’re the smartest, but I told them that what I want you to do is build your electric generating plant right next to your plant as a separate building, connected. And they said, “Wow, you’re kidding.” And I said, “No, no. I’m not kidding.” You don’t have to hook into the grid, which is old and, you know, could be taken out. If it’s taken out, they wouldn’t have any way to get any electricity. So, we are going to allow them to go on a very rapid bas- — basis to build their plant — build the electric generating plant. They can fuel it with anything they want, and they may have coal as a backup. Good, clean coal. You know, if there were a problem with a — with a pipe coming in — as an example, you’re going with gas — oil or gas — and a pipe gets blown up or, for some reason, doesn’t work, there are some companies in the U.S. that have coal sitting right by the plant so that if there’s an emergency, they can go to that short-term basis and use our very clean coal. So, that’s something else that a lot of people didn’t even know about. But nothing can destroy coal — not the weather, not a bomb — nothing. It might make it a little smaller, might make it a little different shape. But coal is very strong as a backup. It’s a great backup to have that facility, and it wouldn’t cost much more — more money. And we have more coal than anybody. We also have more oil and gas than anybody. So, we’re going to make it so that the plants will have their own electric generating facilities attached right to their plant. They don’t have to worry about a utility. They don’t have to worry about anything. And we’re going to get very rapid approvals. MR. BRENDE: Thank you. Thank you so much, Mr. President. We’ll now go to another CEO that you know very well: Brian Moynihan, the CEO and chair of Bank of America. MR. MOYNIHAN: Good afternoon, Mr. President, and congratulations — an obviously eventful week for you and your family. If you remember, five years ago, you came here and we walked among 150 CEOs from all over the world, and you engaged with them about your policies and your procedures. This year, you’re not here. And yet this week was eventful, from the orders that you mentioned earlier — literally a wave of orders coming out on immigration, on trade, and many other matters. And so, as a representative of the United States here, we got a lot of questions about what does all this mean and how would the president square this with his clear focus on growth, prosperity, market gro- — stock market growth, a good bond market, and bringing down prices. So, how do you think about the impact of all these orders and how fast they come out and how you’re going to balance them with that scorecard of being successful on both contan- — continuing GDP growth, bringing down inflation, and also having a good stock price appreciation for the American citizen? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I think it’s going to actually bring down inflation. It’s going to bring up jobs. We’re going to have a lot of jobs. We’re going to have a lot of companies moving in. You know, Brian, we’re at 21 percent. It was at 40 percent, and I got it down to 21 percent — the corporate tax. And it was — actually, if you look at state and city, it was, in many cases, much higher than 40 percent. I got it down to 21 percent. And now we’re going to bring it down from 21 to 15 percent if — this is a big “if” — if you make your product in the U.S. So, we’re going to have the lowest — just about the lowest rate. It will be — the 21 is on the low side worldwide; the 15 is about as low as it gets, and by far the lowest of a large country — a large, you know, rich, powerful country — by far, not even a contest. So, we’re going to bring it down to 15 percent if you make your product in the USA. So, that’s going to create a — a tremendous buzz. We’re also probably going back to the one-year deduction, where we deduct — you know, we — we did that originally, and that was amazing what — the impact that that had, the one-year deduction, which built up over a period of time and then it expires. But we’re going to go back to that when we do the renewal of the Trump tax plan. We have to get Democrats to approve it. But, you know, if the Democrats didn’t approve it, I don’t know how they can survive with about a 45 percent tax increase, because that’s what it would be. And so, I think they’re going to b- — w- — we’ve been working along with them pretty well. I think it’s very hard for a political group to say, “Let’s charge people 45 percent more.” So, I think we’re in good shape. But we’re actually doing a reduction for business and small businesses, where you’re going to b- — bring it down to 15 percent, which is really something. And, by the way, speaking of you — and you’ve done a fantastic job — but I hope you start opening your bank to conservatives, because many conservatives complain that the banks are not allowing them to do business within the bank, and that included a place called Bank of America. This conserve- — they don’t take conservative business. And I don’t know if the regulators mandated that because of Biden or what, but you and Jamie and everybody, I hope you’re going to open your banks to conservatives, because what you’re doing is wrong. MR. MOYNIHAN: Mr. President — MR. BRENDE: (Inaudible.) MR. MOYNIHAN: — I’ll say that your friend Gianni was — said hello — told me tell you hello, and we look forward to sponsoring the World Cup when it comes, both this summer for the club and next year. So, thank you for getting that for the United States. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much, Brian. MR. BRENDE: Thank you, Mr. President. We’ll now go to Ana Botín. She’s the executive chairman of Banco Santander, one of the big European banks and also in the U.S. So, Ana. MS. BOTÍN: Mr. President, congratulations on a historic victory. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. MS. BOTÍN: I believe you don’t know me as well as my fellow panelists, so a few words. Santander is one of the largest banks in the world by number of customers, 170 million. That’s more than my friend Brian or my friend Jamie have. (Laughter.) THE PRESIDENT: Wow. MS. BOTÍN: And those — (applause) — MR. MOYNIHAN: If they fix the regulation (inaudible). MS. BOTÍN: That’s coming. That’s coming. MR. BRENDE: That was cheeky. (Laughter.) MS. BOTÍN: We are — we are a big investor in the United States. We have many million customer, 12,000 employees. We’re one of the largest auto lenders, and we recently launched a fully digital bank called Openbank. We strongly believe banks have a pivotal role in the economy, and we can accelerate growth and help many more customers. That’s what we do in the United States. So, as Brian pointed out, we very much welcome your focus on deregulation and reducing bureaucracy. So, my question is: What are your priorities in this regard, and how fast is this going to happen? Thank you very much. THE PRESIDENT: Well, I think it’s going to — thank you and congratulations. I know very much about your bank, and you’ve done a fantastic job. Congratulations. We are going to move very quickly. We’ve moved very quickly. We’ve done things in the last three days that nobody thought were possible to do in years. And it’s all taken — it’s all taken effect. It’s going to have a huge impact on the economy, a huge positive impact. Money was being wasted on crazy things. I mean, the Green New Deal was such a total disgrace — what — what — how that was perpetrated. And it was conceived of by people that were average students — less than average students, I might add — and never even took a course in energy or the environment. It was just a game. Remember, the world was going to end in 12 years? Remember that? Well, the 12 years has come and gone. It was going to end. It was going to all foam into earth. But, you know, the time has come. The — these people — and they — they really — they really scared the Democrats large- — I can’t say the Republicans. Republicans maybe could have fought harder to stop it, but it’s been a tremendous waste of — a tremendous waste of money. You know, during my four years, we had the cleanest air, we had the cleanest water, and yet we had the most productive economy in the history of our country. We had the most productive economy. Until COVID came, we had the most productive in the history of our country, by far. And — and actually, you could look worldwide, we — we’re — we were beating everybody from China to everybody else. So — and we think we really — now, with what we have learned and all of the other things that have taken place, we think we can even far surpass that — a- — actually, far, far surpass it. But we do — one thing we’re going to be demanding is we’re going to — be demanding respect from other nations. Canada. We have a tremendous deficit with Canada. We’re not going to have that anymore. We can’t do it. It’s — it’s — I don’t know if it’s good for them. As you probably know, I say, “You can always become a state, and if you’re a state, we won’t have a deficit. We won’t have to tariff you, et cetera, et cetera.” But Canada has been very tough to deal with over the years, and it’s not fair that we should have a $200 billion or $250 billion deficit. We don’t need them to make our cars, and they make a lot of them. We don’t need their lumber because we have our own forests, et cetera, et cetera. We don’t need their oil and gas. We have our — we have more than anybody. So, you know, just as an example, with Mexico — we’re dealing with Mexico, I think, very well. And we’re just — you know, w- — we just want to be treated fairly with other nations, because there’s hardly a nation in the world — and I blame this on us, and I blame it on politicians that for some reason — and probably mostly it’s stupidity, but you could also say other reasons, but mostly stupidity — they’ve allowed other nations to take advantage of the U.S. And w- — we can’t allow that to happen anymore. You know, we have debt. It’s a very small debt when you compare it to value — the value of the assets that we have, but we don’t want to do that. We want to just have debt be obliterated, and we’ll be able to do that fairly rapidly. And a lot of good things are going to happen. And — and honestly, good things are going to happen for the world, and good things are going to happen for the people that are dealing with us — allies and beyond allies. One thing — very important — I really would like to be able to meet with President Putin soon and get that war end — ended, and — and that’s not from the standpoint of economy or anything else. It’s from the standpoint of millions of lives are being wasted. Beautiful, young people are being shot in the battlefield. You know, the bullet — a very flat land, as I said, and the bullet goes — there’s no — there’s no hiding. And a bullet — the only thing going to stop the bullet is a human body. And you have to see — I’ve seen pictures of what’s taken place. It’s a carnage. And we really have to stop that war. That war is horrible. And I’m not talking economy, I’m not talking economics, I’m not talking about natural resource. I’m just talking about: There’s so many young people being killed in this war, and that’s not including the people that have been killed as the cities are being, you know, knocked down building by building. So, we really should get that stopped. Likewise, in the Middle East, I think we’ve made a lot of progress in the Middle East, and I think that’s going to — that’s going to come along pretty well. Thank you very much. MR. BRENDE: Thank you, Mr. President. We know that most consequential relationship in the world is between the U.S. and China. U.S., 28 percent of the global economy; China close to 20. That’s almost half of the global GDP. And we know that you called President Xi Jinping last Friday. We heard that you had a good discussion. How do you see the relationship between the U.S. and China in the next four years under your leadership? THE PRESIDENT: He called me. But I see it very good. I think that we’re going to have a very good relationship. All we want is fairness. We just want a level playing field. We don’t want to take advantage. We’ve been having massive deficits with China. Biden allowed it to get out of hand. He’s — $1.1 trillion deficit. It’s ridiculous, and it’s just an unfair relationship. And we have to make it just fair. We don’t have to make it phenomenal. We have to make it a fair relationship. Right now, it’s not a fair relationship. The deficit is massive, as it is with other countries — a lot of Asian countries, actually. But we have deficits that are very big, and we can’t keep doing that, so we’re not going to keep doing that. But I like President Xi very much. I’ve always liked him. We always had a very good relationship. It was very strained with COVID coming out of Wuhan. Obviously, that strained it. I’m sure it strained it with a lot of people, but that strained our relationship. But we always had a great relationship, I would say, and we look forward to doing very well with China and getting along with China. Hopefully, China can help us stop the war with, in particular, Russia-Ukraine. And they have a great deal of power over that situation, and we’ll work with them. And I mentioned that with — during our phone conversation with President Xi, and hopefully we could work together and get that stopped. We’d like to see denuclearization. In fact, with President Putin, prior to a — an election result, which was, frankly, ridiculous, we were talking about denuclearization of our two countries, and China would have come along. China has a — a much smaller, right now, nuclear armament than us or field than us, but they’re — they’re going to be catching it at some point over the next four or five years. And I will tell you that President Putin really liked the idea of — of cutting way back on nuclear. And I think the rest of the world, we would have gotten them to follow. And China would have come along too. China also liked it. Tremendous amounts of money are being spent on nuclear, and the destructive capability is something that we don’t even want to talk about today, because you don’t want to hear it. It’s too depressing. So, we want to see if we can denuclearize, and I think that’s very possible. And I can tell you that President Putin wanted to do it. He and I wanted to do it. We had a good conversation with China. They would have been involved, and that would have been an unbelievable thing for the planet. And I hope — MR. BRENDE: Mr. President, when you’re — THE PRESIDENT: — it can be started up again. MR. BRENDE: — back here in Davos next year, will — will there be then a peace agreement with — with Ukraine and Russia by then? THE PRESIDENT: Well, you’re going to have to ask Russia. Ukraine is ready to — to make a deal. Just so you understand, this is a war that should have never started. If I were president, it would never have started. This is a war that should have never, ever been started. And — and it wasn’t started during my — there was never even talk about it. I knew that it was the apple of President Putin’s eye, but I also knew that there was no way he was going in, and he wasn’t going to go in. And then, when I was out, bad things happened, bad things were said, a lot of stupidity all around, and you end up with what you have. Now you have all these bombed-out cities — they look like demolition sites — with many people killed. I think the — the thing that you’ll see about Ukraine is that far — far more people have died than is being reported. And I’ve seen that. But far, far more people have died. When you look at a city that’s become a demolition site, where big buildings have been collapsed by missiles hitting them and everything else, and they say, “One person was slightly injured.” No, no, many people were killed. Those are big buildings. I was surprised at how — that was my business. These are buildings that go two and three blocks long. They’re 20 stories high. They’re big, powerful buildings. Then they were knocked down, and there were a lot of people in those buildings. They had announced that two people were injured. That’s not true. So, I think you’re going to find that there were many more people killed in Ukraine and the Ukraine war than anybody has any idea. But if you look now, so many of the — the people being killed are soldiers just facing each other with guns, rifles, and drones — the new form of warfare — drones. And it’s a very sad thing to see. And when you see pictures of the fields that I see, nobody wants to see it. You’ll never be the same. MR. BRENDE: Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of all the 3,000 participants here in Davos, we really, really underline that joining us, the third day in your presidency, live, taking questions here, it’s so appreciated. And we are already ready for receiving you next year in person. So, thank you very much, and all the best from Davos. (Applause.) THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause.) END 11:49 A.M. EST
Los Angeles International AirportLos Angeles, California (January 24, 2025) 6:41 P.M. PST THE PRESIDENT: So, thank you very much. We just heard that we have a great Secretary of Defense. We’re very happy about that, and we appreciate everybody’s vote. And very importantly, I think we had two fantastic meetings in North Carolina and also in Los Angeles, and we made a lot of progress. It’s – they’re tragic events, really tragic. And we appreciate your being here, and we’re going home. Q What did you promise the — the governor, Mr. President? Did he ask for federal dollars? Did he ask for your help? THE PRESIDENT: No, no, we just had a good talk. We’re on the same team. We want to get it fixed. So, we had a very good talk. With the governor, I had a very, very good talk. Q What do you think of Mitch McConnell voting against Hegseth’s nomination? THE PRESIDENT: I didn’t know that. I just know we won. I didn’t know that. Q Do you think the mayor got the message that she’s got to cut red tape and get (inaudible)? THE PRESIDENT: I hope the mayor got the message. Yeah. I don’t know. (Laughs.) I’m not sure, but I hope so. Now, look, I think she means well, but these people want to get about building their house. They’re not going to wait around 18 months, and they’re not going to wait around a long time. Q Mr. President, are you — THE PRESIDENT: So, we’re going to give an immediate permit. Q Are you concerned about any other nominations for confirmation in the Senate? THE PRESIDENT: No. No, I’m honored to have Pete. I think Pete is going to be a great Secretary of Defense — Pete Hegseth — and we’re honored to have him. Q I apologize. I couldn’t hear you. Did you say you were speaking to him on the phone? THE PRESIDENT: No, I did speak to Pete — yeah — in the plane, in the helicopter. I think Pete is going to be a great Secretary of Defense. Q Are you disappointed that McConnell voted no? THE PRESIDENT: No, I didn’t even know that. No, I don’t know that. I just heard that we won. Winning is what matters, right? So, thank you very much everybody. Are you going on the plane? Q Yes. THE PRESIDENT: Good. Maybe I’ll see you on the plane. Q That would be great. THE PRESIDENT: We’ll see you on the plane. Q Come back. Q Come back and say hello, okay? THE PRESIDENT: I will. END 6:43 P.M. PST
 REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMPBEFORE MARINE ONE DEPARTURE South Lawn 9:10 A.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: Hello, everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. So, we’re going to North Carolina. It’s been a horrible thing the way that’s been allowed to fester, and we’re going to get it fixed up — it should have been done months ago — from the hurricane that took place almost four months ago. North Carolina has been treated very badly, so we’re stopping there. And we’re going to then go to Los Angeles and take a look at a fire that could have been put out if they let the water flow, but they didn’t let the water flow. And they still haven’t for whatever reason. So, I think we’re going to have a very interesting time. I think many of you are going with us. If you’d like to have a ride on the plane, we’d love to give it to you. Q Mr. President, why did you invite Adam Schiff on your trip given you called him “scum” earlier this week? THE PRESIDENT: I don’t know. Is he — is he going? Is he going? Q No. THE PRESIDENT: I don’t know. I mean, I really don’t. You know, because if he’s going to be there, it would be cheaper, but I didn’t invite him. Somebody did. (Cross-talk.) Q Pete Hegseth — Pete Hegseth lost two Republican votes yesterday. Are you at all concerned about his prospects? THE PRESIDENT: Look, whatever it is, it is. He’s a good man. I don’t know what’s going to happen; you never know in those things. But Pete is a very, very good man. I hope he makes it. I hope he makes it. I was very surprised that Collins and Murkowski would do that. And, of course, Mitch is always a “no” vote, I guess. Is Mitch a “no” vote? How about Mitch? Q He hasn’t said yet. THE PRESIDENT: Huh? He what? Q He hasn’t said yet. THE PRESIDENT: Let’s see what happens. (Cross-talk.) Q The March for Life is today. Sir, the March for Life. Mr. President, the March for Life, sir. Mr. President, the March for Life. The March for Life is today. THE PRESIDENT: I did a big clip for the March for Life, and we look forward to seeing it. I’m going to be watching it. And JD Vance, our vice president, is there, and he’s going to be representing us very well. Taking place in a little while, and other than being a little bit cold, it’s a beautiful day. (Cross-talk.) Q How will your — Mr. President, how will your administration — how will your administration protect — Q Mr. President, will you give Italy a break of tariffs? Q — sir, how will your administration protect pro-life of Americans going forward? THE PRESIDENT: Oh, we’re all — we’re all for it. In fact, as you know, I just signed a pardon, and in the pardon, we released 23 people that were unjustly put in having to do with pro-life. And they will be released, and they’ll be out very shortly. It was disgraceful what happened to them. That was a persecution. (Cross-talk.) Q Mr. President, will you give — will you give Italy a break on tax — on tariffs, sir? THE PRESIDENT: Well, I like her very much. Let’s see what happens. Have a good time. (Inaudible.) END 9:12 A.M. EST
REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMPDURING HURRICANE HELENE BRIEFING Airport Fire and Rescue FacilityFletcher, North Carolina 11:34 A.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: Well, thank you very much. It’s a little cold outside, but you’re getting used to the cold.And one of the things that are very important to me and one of the reasons I’m happy that we won so convincingly is to help North Carolina get fixed up. They supported us in record numbers, and I’m supporting them in record numbers too. And they had me set — I wanted to go to Los Angeles and see what was going on with California, why they aren’t releasing the water. Millions and millions of gallons of water, they’re sending it out to the Pacific. Someday, somebody’s going — going to explain that one. In the meantime, they have no water in Los Angeles, where they had the problems. But — so, we’re going there. But I said, “Well, what about North Carolina?” “Well, you could do that la-” — “no, I can’t.” I said, “We’re stopping in North Carolina first, and then we’re going to Los Angeles.” And we just appreciate the outpouring of love that we’ve had here. Lara was, as you know, very instrumental in the campaign, and she lived here and is loved, and we appreciate it. And Michael Whatley has been incredible — wherever Michael is — hello, Michael. Michael Whatley has been great. And your congressmen have been great. And what we thought we’d do is take a quick look around. First, we wanted to do this. I — I want to say that we’re very disappointed in FEMA. Your new governor, it’s not his fault. He’s brand-new to the whole situation. But we’re going to work together with the governor. We’re going to work together with the — your senators, but, really, we’re going to work a lot with your congressman, especially the three that are in the area, and Michael Whatley. And I’d like to put Michael in charge of making sure everything goes well. And Franklin Graham has been unbelievable. We’ve made a big contribution to Franklin, and we’ll continue to do so. But I — I’ve been hearing nothing but praise for the job that Samaritan’s Purse has done with Franklin, and we appreciate it. Where is Franklin? He’s around here someplace. (Laughter.) And — that good-looking guy. He’s always been a good-looking guy. His father was a good-looking guy, too, I’ll tell you. We loved his father, right? I saw his father in the latter years, and I said, “Well, he — he doesn’t have long to go.” He was having a hard time, and he lived about three, four years after that, right? REVEREND GRAHAM: That’s right. THE PRESIDENT: He — he was — they call — they say he was “good stock.” He had the ultimate good stock. But I want to thank you, Franklin. You were — you’ve been fantastic here. And everywhere he goes, he — he’s always — he’s always the first one I see. Does — people don’t realize it, how — how good it is. A lot of people, they go, “Well, maybe it’s for the people that he’s got.” And you guys know, because you’re here, but the people that he’s got have done amazing work. So, I just want to thank everybody. We’re going to get over and take a look. We’ll say a few words. I want to just — I do want to introduce some of the people that we have. And our first lady — we’ll start with our first lady. She wanted to be here because of North Carolina. And then I said, “Well, you can do that, but you’re going to have to come to California too.” (Laughter.) THE FIRST LADY: That’s okay. THE PRESIDENT: And she said, “That’s okay.” (Laughter.) And we got to fix that one up too. That’s — who — do you ever see anything like that one? It’s — who would have — who would have thought that could have happened. So, Governor Josh Stein, thank you very much. We appreciate it. And we’re going to have a — a very long and good relationship. Representatives — maybe stand up, if you would, so we — the press can see. Representatives Chuck Edwards — Chuck, thank you. Thank you, Chuck. Tim Moore. Virginia. You know Virginia Foxx, a legend — she is such a powerful woman. Pat Harrigan. Pat, thank you very much. Your agriculture commissioner, who I hear is excellent, Steve Troxler — Steve, thank you very much. Good job, Steve. You’ve got plenty to do, right? MR. TROXLER: (Inaudible.) THE PRESIDENT: (Laughs.) More than you ever thought. North Carolina Speaker Destin Hall. Thank you, Destin. Thanks, Destin. Very good. House Majority Leader Brenden Jones. Brenden, thank you very much. We’re making progress, Brenden. State Representatives Dudley Greene, Karl Gillespie, thank you very much, fellas. Good, good. Thank you very much. State Senators Kevin Corbin, Warren Daniel, thank you. Thank you very much, Kevin, Warren. And County Commissioner Jennifer Best, thank you. Jennifer, thank you. So, Hurricane Helene was one of the worst natural disasters in American history. It was far worse than it was even billed. I have never seen such water damage. It was largely water damage — wind damage, but water damage nobody has ever seen. I’ve been here, as you know, numerous times, but now I’m here in a position where we can do something, meaning I’ve been in — in office for four days. And I wanted to come sooner, but actually, they had a little problem with getting, logistically, in here, but I would have been ev- — here even sooner. One oh four — a hundred and four North Carolinians have — at least — have lost their lives. Is that now a fairly firm number, or are they still finding people? You know? Is — what do you think? They’re still finding people? Pretty much, okay? It’s a lot of people. A hundred and four people lost their lives. Seventy-three thousand homes were severely damaged or destroyed. And I’ll tell you, I’ve been to a lot of them, and this was a — this was like lots of hurricanes in one. I’ve never seen such damage done by water. And the — the water came, it was violent, and it left, and there was, like, nothing left. It’s really pretty amazing. At one point, half of the emergency calls to FEMA went unanswered. That’s real bad. FEMA was not doing their job. The city of Asheville went without running water for two months. A whistleblower testified that some FEMA employees refused to help people who displayed Trump signs on their properties. I think that’s true, isn’t it? I read that. That’s not nice. That’s not too nice, is it? But whoever those property people were, thank you very much. Michael, is that true? MR. WHATLEY: (Inaudible.) THE PRESIDENT: That’s not good — huh? — about the property owners. You put a Trump sign on it, they wouldn’t help — FEMA. Earlier this year, FEMA kicked 2,000 North Carolinians out of their temporary housing into below-freezing temperatures. What was that all about? Is that — do you know about that? What happened? Tell me. STATE SPEAKER HALL: We had an incompetent administration under Biden. And we had a disaster, and then we call it “the disaster after the disaster” — that was the FEMA response. THE PRESIDENT: You had nothing but disaster since then. I — it doesn’t matter at this point. Biden did a bad job. Some residents still don’t have hot water, drinking water, or anything else. And m- — many of them don’t have quarters. They don’t have anything. They got a stipend for what they lost, and we’re going to take care of it. This is totally unacceptable, and I’ll be taking strong action to get North Carolina the support that you need to quickly recover and rebuild. We’re working on it very hard. And I think if Michael Whatley does half as good a job for North Carolina as he did for my campaign, we’ll be very happy. (Laughter.) Him and Lara were a very powerful team. So, you think you can handle it, Michael? I don’t know. I’m not sure, Michael. (Laughter.) I think this is maybe, in many ways, easier. Okay? Maybe easier. But you’re going to lead the team. Do you want to say who the — who the congressmen are that you want to appoint? Do you want to introduce them? MR. WHATLEY: So, we — we have Virginia Foxx and Chuck Edwards and Tim Moore — THE PRESIDENT: And — MR. WHATLEY: — whose districts encompass the area (inaudible) — THE PRESIDENT: And they are the districts that were most severely impacted, right? You were — you were affected, then, Virginia? REPRESENTATIVE FOXX: Yes, sir. Lost my own property. THE PRESIDENT: Really? Well, I’ll also be signing an executive order to begin the process of fundamentally reforming and overhauling FEMA or maybe getting rid of FEMA. I think, frankly, FEMA is not good. I think when you have a problem like this, I think you want to go and — whether it’s a Democrat or a Republican governor, you want to use your state to fix it and not waste time calling FEMA. And then FEMA gets here, and they don’t know the area, they’ve never been to the area, and they want to give you rules that you’ve never heard about, they want to bring people that aren’t as good as the people you already have. And FEMA has turned out to be a — a disaster. And you could go back a long way. You could go back to Louisiana. You could go back to some of the things that took place in Texas. It — it turns out to be the state that ends up doing the work. It just complicates it. I think we’re going to recommend that FEMA go away and we pay directly — we pay a percentage to the state. But the state should fix this. If the state did this from the beginning, it would have been a lot better situation. I think you guys agree with that, right? So, I just want to tell that Ash- — say that Asheville — I know it well. It’s a great place, and we’re going to have it be a great place again. That was the one that was most severely affected. But North Carolina is going to come back bigger, better, stronger than ever before, and you’re going to be very thankful. And you’ve already seen — I know that it really began four days ago, but you’ve already seen more action than you have in the last three months. And we’re going to get it together. We’re informing the Army Corps of Engineers to get going, because you have a lot of river breaks and a lot of areas that you’re going to need some pretty big work. And they’re on their way. They’re going to be working very — much harder than they’ve been working in the past. And we’re going to take care of it. Any questions from the press of any of the congressmen, governor, anybody? Q Sir, are you going to sign an executive order on FEMA — getting rid of it? Can you explain more about signing the executive order to get rid of FEMA, please? THE PRESIDENT: FEMA has been a very big disappointment. They cost a tremendous amount of money. It’s very bureaucratic, and it’s very slow. Other than that, we’re very happy with them. Okay? (Laughter.) And I think it’s — I think when there’s a — when there’s a problem with the state, I think that that problem should be taken care of by the state. That’s what we have states for; they take care of problems. And a governor can handle something very quickly. You know, one of the things I’ve noticed, because I’ve been doing this for a while, and we had a pretty good FEMA. But I also noticed that when they come, they end up in arguments of — they’re fighting all the time over who does what. It’s a — just a — it’s just not a good system. This system is so beautifully designed over 250 years, approximately, you know, and we’ll soon be celebrating the 250th year. It’s going to be a very big celebration. But it’s been designed very well, and we’re going to leave it that way. When North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Tennessee, when — everybody knows the governor of Tennessee, I think — everybody. Do you — do you know everybody here, pretty much? He’s o- — GOVERNOR LEE: I — I’ve introduced myself. THE PRESIDENT: I never thought of it, but you’re right over the ridge, right? GOVERNOR LEE: Right over the hi- — right over the hillside. THE PRESIDENT: So — so, you’re here to help. That’s great. GOVERNOR LEE: These here, thi- — the people in this region, including Tennessee — the people of Appalachia are grateful that you are here and that you haven’t forgotten them. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. GOVERNOR LEE: And that there are other disasters, but this one was enormous for both North Carolina and Tennessee. So, thank you. THE PRESIDENT: You know, I’ve seen a lot of disasters, and this — when I came — I came here right after, the day after. And when I came here, I couldn’t believe it, actually. I couldn’t believe the damage. I — and I’ve seen a lot of them. This was — this was more like a tornado than it was — what we witnessed. So, we’re going to get it very much — very much taken care of. Good job. That’s nice that you came. GOVERNOR LEE: Thank you, sir. THE PRESIDENT: And so, you call it right — you’re right over the ridge, right? Tennessee. GOVERNOR LEE: Right over the ridge, yes, sir. THE PRESIDENT: I like Tennessee, too. Let’s see. Where did I get more votes — Tennessee or North Carolina? I hate — (laughter) — I hate to tell you, North Carolina, it was Tennessee. GOVERNOR LEE: There’s one of the counties in this disaster that had 88 percent for you. So (inaudible) — THE PRESIDENT: Eighty-eight percent, yeah? That’s — the people are just incredible people. GOVERNOR LEE: Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: So, do you have any questions, press? Q Yes, Mr. President, you talked about conditions being placed on aid to California — voter ID and the like. Are there any conditions that you’re going to put on aid to North Carolina? THE PRESIDENT: Oh, we’re going to do a lot for North Carolina. You know, they’ve been very slow. I don’t know why it’s been so bad. This has been one of the worst I’ve seen. Katrina, of course, you know, was somebo- — something that — obviously, that was a long time ago — that was not good. But this has been very slow. I don’t know if that was for political reasons because they lost the state. You know, Biden lost the state. Maybe he felt — he doesn’t care. Maybe there were other reasons. I don’t know. But this has been very slow. By any standard, this has been very slow. And we’re going to — we’re going to make up for lost time. Q But no conditions you’re going to push for aid, just full stop? THE PRESIDENT: Well, in California, I have a condition. In California, we want them to have voter ID so the people have a voice, because right now, the people don’t have a voice because you don’t know who’s voting and it’s very corrupt. And we also want them to release the water. If they release the water, they wouldn’t have had a problem. If they released the water when I told them to — because I told them to do it seven years ago — if they would have done it, you wouldn’t have had the problem that you had. You might have — you might not have even had a fire. So — but here, I don’t have that. It’s a different thing. You got hit by a storm. The people are incredible. They worked really well. Franklin was fantastic, and other groups — by the way, other groups came in that were also fantastic. And other states came in; Tennessee and a couple of others came in, and they really helped. That’s the way it’s supposed to be. No, this is a different kind of a thing. Q Mr. President, have you decided how much funding you would allocate for disaster relief in North Carolina? THE PRESIDENT: About what? Q Have you decided how much funding you would allocate for disaster relief? THE PRESIDENT: I haven’t de- — I have to see what it is. Q Mr. President — Q Are — are — are you disappointed that Senator Schiff hasn’t joined you on this trip? It’s reported that you invited Senator Schiff to join you on this trip, and he was too busy. Are you disappointed by that? THE PRESIDENT: I don’t know, I — I was told that Schiff was going to travel with us to California. I wasn’t thrilled, to be honest with you. (Laughter.) And I saw him last night on television. It looks like he got hit with a baseball bat or something. What happened to him? Something happened to him. Q Are you still — THE PRESIDENT: It was a little — it looked like he got hit. It looked like he got beat around, but — Q So, did — did you invite him or — THE PRESIDENT: But I’ll ask Karoline to find out what happened to him. No, if he wanted to come out, I would have done that. But I don’t know. I — somebody said that he wanted to come on the plane, but I think he’s staying back for the votes. There’s some pretty good votes going on. Yeah. Q Mr. President, what is your timeline for getting rid of FEMA? THE PRESIDENT: I — I woul- — for the — for this one? For this one? Well — Q For — you just talked about possibly getting rid of FEMA. What timeline are you looking at, and how would you do that? THE PRESIDENT: Well, we’re looking here — here, you’re talking about. To start — we’re going to start immediately — timeline. And to finish, it’s going to be a period of time. You know, people are also rebuilding their houses. How long does it take to build a house, right? It takes a time. And I want them to build houses bigger, better, nicer than they had before, so they can have — at least they get something out of this disaster. This was a real disaster. No, timeline will be fast. In terms of infrastructure, I think very fast. I want to thank Elon, because Elon was able to get us communication systems, as you know — Starlink. We had no communication. The first day I got here, I was asked by one of the people, one of the really great representatives, professionals that — “Is there any way you could get Starlink here,” because they had no communication whatsoever. And I called up Elon Musk, and he had, you know, hundreds of units brought here — like, brought immediately. And it’s hard to get; they couldn’t get them before. And that made a lot of difference. I think it saved a lot of lives, actually. Yeah. Infrastructure-wise, we’ll do it quickly. Q Sir, can you just talk about how long you might — do you think it might take to get rid of FEMA? What’s the timeline on that if you’re going to roll it back? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. I would say, look, as far as I’m concerned, I’m not really thinking about FEMA right now here. I’m thinking about Michael Whatley, and I’m thinking about the three congresspeople that you just heard from and also the other people in Congress. And they’ll be working with the governor. They’ll be working with the governor. So, that’s what I see. Q Change of subject real quickly. The Laken Riley Act was signed by Mike — Speaker Johnson yesterday. When do you — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q — when do you anticipate to put — to sign that in the Oval Office? THE PRESIDENT: Well, we’re honored by that. Laken Riley — I was there at the time, and we had a big meeting with the parents right after that horrible thing took place. And we have a — an act. You all know what that act represents. And it was a bipartisan bill. Many Democrats signed — signed on to it. That’s something that is a tribute to Laken, a beautiful young lady who was killed viciously by an illegal alien. And we passed a very powerful bill, and it was just approved. And we’ll have a ceremony sometime very shortly. I’ll be signing it. In other words, if you’re asking, I will definitely be signing it. Okay? Yeah. Q Mr. President, the security detail for Anthony Fauci was terminated last night, and I’m wondering if you have any comment on that? THE PRESIDENT: About what? Q The security detail for Anthony Fauci was terminated last night, sir. Do you have a comment? THE PRESIDENT: No, I think, you know, when you work for govern- — government, at some point, your security detail comes off. And, you know, you can’t have them forever. So, I think it’s very standard. If it would be for somebody else, you wouldn’t be asking the question. The question is very fair, but, you know, you work for government — we took some off other people too — but you can’t have a security detail for the rest of your life because you worked for government. Q Did you ask for it to be taken off, sir? THE PRESIDENT: Well, we’ll see what happens. Q Would you feel partially responsible if something were to happen to, say, Dr. Fauci — THE PRESIDENT: No. Q — or John Bolton? THE PRESIDENT: No. You know, they all made a lot of money. They can hire their own security too. All the people you’re talking about, they can go out — I can give them some good numbers of very good security people. They can hire their own security. They all made a lot of money. Fauci made a lot of money. They all did. So, if they, you know, felt that strongly, I — I think that — certainly, I would not take responsibility. Q North Carolina is a state that relies on trade and manufacturing. Are you going to have an announcement on new tariffs coming soon? Is there a timeline now? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, the tariffs are going to make our country rich. We’re going to be a rich, rich country very soon. Tariffs are going to make it rich. And competence — we have common sense, competence, and tariffs. The word “tariff” is one of the most beautiful words in the dictionary. Q Jonathan Reynolds, the — the business secretary of the United Kingdom, said that there’s an even trade between the U.S. and — and the UK, so they shouldn’t have tariffs. Does trade imbalances or a balanced trade affect tariffs and your decisions? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, ba- — unbalance and balance, and also deficits, like with Canada. We lose $200 billion a year with Canada. That’s because we allow them to make cars. We allow them to take lumber. We don’t need their cars. We don’t need their lumber. We don’t need their food products because we make the same products right on the other side of the border. It’s sort of crazy. So, we’ve just allowed that — you know, bad management has allowed it, over the last four years, in particular, to become very imbalanced. And I said to — I call him “Governor Trudeau,” but he’s Prime Minister Trudeau — when he was prime minister, I asked him, “Why would we do that? Why?” And he was unable to give me an answer. He said, “I don’t know.” And I said, “Do you think it’s fair that we’re paying $200 billion to keep Canada going?” “And what would happen” — I said — I asked him, “What would happen if we didn’t do that, if we didn’t subsidize Canada?” He said, “We’d be a failed nation.” And I said, “Then you should be a state,” because why are we paying all of that money to Canada when, you know, we — we could use it ourselves, right? So, we take care of their military. You know, we ordered — we’re going to order about 40 Coast Guard big icebreakers. Big ones. And all of a sudden, Canada wants a piece of the deal. I say, “Why are we doing that?” I mean, I like doing that if they’re a state, but I don’t like doing that if they’re a nation. Also, they’ve been very nasty to us on trade. Historically, Canada has been very, very bad to us, very unfair to us on trade. So, we’ll see how it all works out. Q So, the United Kingdom — THE PRESIDENT: I would — Q — might be in a better spot? THE PRESIDENT: I would love to see Canada be the 51st state. The Canadian citizens, if that happened, would get a very big tax cut — tremendous tax cut — because they’re very high- — highly taxed. And you wouldn’t have to worry about military. You wouldn’t have to worry about many of the things. You’d have better health coverage. You’d have much better health coverage. So, I think the people of Canada would like it, you know, if it’s explained. But I — just to start off, they’d have a very — they’d have a massive tax cut, and they’d have a lot more business, because then we’d let business go to Canada routinely. And there’d be no tariffs. You know, if we did that, there’d be no tariffs. Q So, the United Kingdom might be in a better spot, then? Q Can you talk about Samaritan’s Purse? Reverend Franklin Graham has been a great asset to this state. Talk a little bit about the way the Samaritan Purse has helped North Carolinians. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, say it once again. The first — Q Reverend Franklin Graham has been a big part of Samaritan Purse and their aid to North Carolina. I just want to get your thoughts on that. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Well, Franklin Graham has been a big asset to the state. His father was a big asset to the state, to the country — both of them. I just think this: I think Franklin and — and other people that are doing what Franklin have done — but I — you know, I’ve known Franklin so long. He was at the inauguration. He made a speech, beautiful speech; beautiful prayer. He just — he does a great job. And we gave — we made a big donation, and it was — it was money well spent. Sometimes you make donations, it’s not well spent. He’s done a great job here. He’s done a really great job. So, I want to thank you. We’re going to the site now, and — one of the sites — and we’ll — I think you’ll — for those that haven’t seen it, you won’t even believe it, but not enough work was done. We’ll get it done fast. And I can speak for the Republican congressmen, we’re going to knock it out, right? We’re going to knock it out. And I think we take it very personally, because it was — North Carolina was very unfairly treated — very, very unfairly treated. And it was obvious. It was too obvious. And we’re going to make up for lost time. So, thank you to the people of North Carolina. Thank you, everybody. END 11:57 A.M. EST
REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP DURING TOUR OF HURRICANE HELENE DISASTER SITE Private Residence Asheville, North Carolina (January 24, 2025) 12:39 P.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much, Franklin. Thank you. A good man. He’s done a great job, a fantastic job. And we’ve come to North Carolina with a simple message for all the people of this region who were hit so hard by Hurricane Helene. And that message is very simple: You are not forgotten any longer. You were treated very badly by the previous administration. And I’m here after a few days of the administration. We’re going to California, Los Angeles. They got hit hard, as you know. A lot of that could have been prevented, I think, if they had water, which they had plenty of, but they didn’t use it. But I’m going there, but — and it was set up to go there, and I said, “Well, wait a minute, what about North Carolina?” They said, “Well, what.” I said, “I have to stop there first. I’m stopping in North Carolina.” So, we made the stop, and I feel very good. You’re represented by some great people. Great, great congressmen are with us, and we’re going to get involved with them. And Michael Whatley is here, who is the head of the Republican Party. He worked with Lara Trump to take us through to a tremendous victory, one of the — as the media says, one of the most consequential presidential elections ever — they say in 129 years, whatever that may mean. But whatever it is, it was a great election we had, and we won your state. All three times, we won your state. And all three primaries, we won your state. So, we won it six times, I guess, Mr. Congressman, huh? And it’s a great place. And I wanted to come here and before I went anywhere, frankly. In the campaign, I promised that I’d come back to western North Carolina to help the people of the state. And today, here I am to deliver on that promise. And we have a lot of things in mind, and we’re getting the Army Corps of Engineers all set. You need your riverbanks fixed. You need a lot of roads fixed. And we’re going to get it done in rapid time. And I’ve asked Susie Wiles and all of my people to start calling up and get the Corps ready, and they’re going to get ready to go. I don’t know what it is — I don’t know what took so long for the other administration. But remember, I wasn’t here for the first four months or three months, whatever it may be. See, we can only start as of, essentially, one or two days ago. And we’ve made a lot of progress over the last couple of days, Michael. I understand we’re going to get you the resources you need and the support that you deserve, and we’ll be at your side through every step of the rebuilding. And no American is going to be left behind. The people that I just met are so great, and the people that own that house is going to be very beautiful in a little while. And who knows, if Franklin decides, maybe he’ll rip it down and build them a new one, because sometimes he can do that just as easily. But we’re going to take care of the people. I want to thank our great first lady for coming today. She really wanted to be here. She said, “No, I want to go.” And, you know, she sees what happened and she felt very badly, and she wanted to go. And we’re then going out together to Los Angeles, but she wanted to be in North Carolina. She saw what happened. She has a — she has a feeling like I do for North Carolina. So, thanks, as well, to a great gentleman, Franklin Graham. And his father, Billy Graham — I used to go with my father to Yankee Stadium and places to watch his father preach. And he was some preacher. Where is he — he was some — you got good stock. You come from the ultimate genes, I can tell you. But he was really something. And Franklin, though, has done so much, and his father is looking down on him right now, I guarantee you. For a long time, he’s been looking down on Franklin, saying, “I’m very proud of you, son.” He really is, because what Franklin has done with Samaritan’s Purse is incredible. They told me just yesterday that Samaritan’s Purse has been great. But the FEMA people sort of left you high and dry, but we’re going to change that around. We’re not happy with FEMA. As well as all of the representatives — you have great representatives here. Chuck Edwards, who’s here someplace. Where is Chuck? PARTICIPANT: Right here. THE PRESIDENT: Where is Chuck? Chuck? Tim Moore. Tim — thank you, Tim. Great job too, both of you guys. Virginia Foxx, a power — she’s a power, that one. Don’t — don’t ever have her as your enemy. It’s not good. (Laughter.) It’s not healthy. Pat Harrigan. Good job, Pat. Addison McDowell. These guys were just here, just put in, and they’re doing a fantastic job. Addison, thank you very much. Great. Mark Harris. Thank you, Mark. Thank you, Mark. Brad Knott. Thank you, Brad. Greg Murphy, a fantastic guy — my friend for a long time now, right? REPRESENTATIVE MURPHY: Yes, sir. THE PRESIDENT: And the RNC chairman, Michael Whatley, who really, as I said, brought us to a great victory with Lara the chairman of the party, the whole Republican — I took Michael Whatley from North Carolina, because he did the best job, and put him in charge of everything. And the job they did together was incredible. Last September, Hurricane Helene became one of the deadliest natural disasters in modern American history. Rainfall rose to far more than 30 inches, which is lethal, unleashing unprecedented devastation throughout western North Carolina and many other states, as you know, but you got hit the hardest. The highest responsibility and deepest obligation of the American government is to protect its people, and that’s never truer than in times of emergency like this. Unfortunately, our government failed you, but it wasn’t the Trump government. It was a government run by Biden. What a terrible situation. But our government failed the people of North Carolina in this horrible crisis. For two months, Asheville lacked running water. And even today, some North Carolinians can’t take a hot-water shower. They can’t drink water. They don’t know where to get it. They have to — it’s delivered to them by somewhere. They just go out and somehow find some. It’s been four months since the storm made landfill [landfall], and still 180 roads remain closed and in ruins. Earlier this month, the Biden administration kicked 2,000 displaced North Carolinians out of their temporary housing into freezing, 20-degree weather — I don’t know how they did that one, because it was cold — even while your government provided shelter and housing for illegal aliens from all over the world. But under the Trump administration, the days of betrayal and neglect are over. They are over. As I said in my Inaugural Address, we restore the integrity, competency, and loyalty of the American government. And I think I said most of it in the Inaugural Address. We said a lot of things, but one of the groups of people I was thinking about is you in North Carolina. A lot of that was in reference to you and what you’ve had to suffer. I’m pleased to announce that under our leadership, the federal government will be surging housing solutions to the state that go beyond mere temporary hotel stays that ended up being very short term. The government wouldn’t do it any longer, which is ridiculous. We’ll marshal all available resources that bring back potable water and make your water and infrastructure dramatically more reliable very quickly. And today, I’ll also be signing an executive order slashing all red tape and bureaucratic barriers and permits to ensure the rapid reconstruction of the roads here in western North Carolina. We’re going to go through a permitting process that’s called “No permitting. Just get it done.” That’s the way they built them many years ago, I guarantee you that. Right? We will get them back very quickly. And we’ll begin the work of funderv- — fundamentally changing, terminating, or overhauling FEMA. FEMA has been a disaster, no matter where they are. We’re honored to be joined today, very quickly, by several families affected by the vicious storm. I’d like to ask each of them to share their story. Chris and Kim West, you can come forward. Ramona Nix, Jackie Mitchell, and Thomas Gary Bright, and finally, the Wright family. And come on up and maybe say a few words. Please. Thank you very much. Hello. MS. WEST: Hi. THE PRESIDENT: Come on in here. MS. WEST: (Laughs.) Whenever it started, we started moving our vehicles to the top of the road. And by the time we got the vehicles moved, the water had already hit our ankles in the house. And so, I grabbed my purse and my little pug dog, and my husband grabbed the dog food and put it in a trash bag. And by the time we got out into the driveway, it was already waist deep, and there was sticks and that kind of thing. I didn’t think I was going to make it, but we did make it out, and we made it to the top of the road. And we were kind of stuck there for hours because we couldn’t get out any other ways, because it was flooded all the way around. It took us hours, and we sat there. And finally, it receded enough to where we could actually get out. It was probably, like, close to midnight. And it started like, 5, 6 o’clock in the morning. We just lost everything that we had. Didn’t even have a brush for, like, three days. So — THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. Come on over. MS. WEST: Thank you. MR. WEST: That — THE PRESIDENT: Okay. Would you like to say something with that beautiful baby? MR. WRIGHT: Say, “hey.” Yeah. So, when the hurricane storms hit North Carolina, hit our home, my daughter and my wife and I were actually out of town. But unfortunately, my dad, who was still home, and my mother was staying at our house with our — with our animals. And my — the waters got so high that it actually lifted — between that and the tornado that came through — or microburst is what they’ve been calling them — and lifted his home and the house that I grew up in and crashed it into our barn. It took away his business. It took away all of our tools and tractors and everything needed to keep the farm going. And my mother was trapped in the house, and there was no way to escape because the water got so high. The only thing she could do was ride it out and wait until the waters came down. So, we’ve been doing a little bit of battling with our insurance and FEMA. We did have proper insurance, with flood insurance and homeowner’s insurance, but since we had proper insurance, FEMA has not been able to assist us with a whole lot of things. And, again, we’ve been having some issues with trying to get some payout for our insurance in a timely manner. We had to do mold mitigation on our home, which is extremely expensive, before the structural engineer even came out in order to get our flood payout. And to me, that was not really acceptable. THE PRESIDENT: Has the insurance company been responsive, or not really? MR. WRIGHT: Not — not so much. You know, again — THE PRESIDENT: Are they going to give you they have to give you? Huh? MR. WRIGHT: I’m — I’m hoping so. THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible.) MR. WRIGHT: And we might need — I mean, we need some assistance with that. We reached out to an attorney. THE PRESIDENT: What’s the name of the insurance company? MR. WRIGHT: North Carolina Farm Bureau. THE PRESIDENT: You’ve got a mortgage, right? MR. WRIGHT: Yep. THE PRESIDENT: That’s terrible. MR. WRIGHT: That’s what we’re after here. So — THE PRESIDENT: Are a lot of people having that problem too with the insurance companies, general? Different insurance companies? And they’re all difficult, or just the one particular one? MR. WRIGHT: I’ve heard different stories from others, and a lot of folks are — THE PRESIDENT: Have you heard some were responsive, that some were good? MR. WRIGHT: I’ve heard some — some good instances of even Farm Bureau themselves. But in my case, you know, they’d sent out a third-party adjuster immediately. Well, they wound up firing that third-party adjuster group. He gave us a quote for a much higher estimate than what we received. THE PRESIDENT: And he got fired? MR. WRIGHT: And then he got let go. Yeah, he got fired. So, then they brought in another third-party adjuster to come in and lowball us. We’ve not received any kind of — so, the flood insurance is our primary insurance. And so, there was roof leaks in the home that the inspectors found — the adjusters. Well, that contributed to us losing some of our personal property, as it come in the third story, where there’s no — or second-story living space, where the flood wa- — well above the flood waters. So, they’ve neglected us for — THE PRESIDENT: Was your mother saved? MR. WRIGHT: Yes, yes, she was saved. THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible.) MR. WRIGHT: She’s right here. THE PRESIDENT: Oh, good. Okay. You made it. MR. WRIGHT: So, we — yeah, we made it. THE PRESIDENT: That was not exciting, right? MR. WRIGHT: That’s right. THE PRESIDENT: How scared were you? MS. WRIGHT: Very. THE PRESIDENT: Did you think you were going to make it? MS. WRIGHT: No. THE PRESIDENT: You didn’t think so? MS. WRIGHT: Nope. I just started praying. THE PRESIDENT: So, you were sort of on a boat? Your house became a boat, huh? MS. WRIGHT: (Laughs.) MR. WRIGHT: It’s a big pontoon. THE PRESIDENT: Wow. That’s some story. Would you like to say something? MR. WRIGHT: It was a beach house on — on the steps. THE PRESIDENT: I’ll bet this guy would like to say something, I can tell. MR. WRIGHT: I was next door to the house, and my son was out of town. So, when he came in to Charlotte — to my sister’s, he called about 2:00 in the morning, because at midnight, the water was still in the stream. THE PRESIDENT: Right. (Inaudible.) MR. WRIGHT: In — within the banks. So, when he called, the water was coming up. So, I started moving vehicles up to about 5:30 in the morning. And she was in the house, and I pulled up to the steps, and I said, “Hop on the fender, and I’ll get you out.” Well, it — he built a beach house on stilts — THE PRESIDENT: Right. MR. WRIGHT: — five times higher than the floodplain. And she said, “Well, he said I’d be okay.” THE PRESIDENT: Right. MR. WRIGHT: “So, I’m staying with the dogs.” THE PRESIDENT: Right. MR. WRIGHT: So, I went to higher ground with some vehicles, hers included, and the water covered everything. But I’d already seen it coming around both sides of my place, so I got my blind and deaf dog and a bag of valuables and took up off the side of the hill behind my house. And then was heading to the cemetery back there because I knew it was open, because there was trees falling — THE PRESIDENT: Right. MR. WRIGHT: — and right uprooting. It was raining. I mean, it was — THE PRESIDENT: You never saw anything like that before? MR. WRIGHT: No, no. I’ve been through floods — THE PRESIDENT: There’s never been anything like that before. MR. WRIGHT: — all my life around here. Never, no. THE PRESIDENT: Never been anything like it. MR. WRIGHT: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. THE PRESIDENT: But you’ve okay, right? MR. WRIGHT: Yep. THE PRESIDENT: All right. Come here. MR. WRIGHT: House is destroyed. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, well, we’re going to help you out there. We’re going to help you out. MR. WRIGHT: Appreciate you. THE PRESIDENT: That’s what we’re here for. MR. WRIGHT: Thanks for being here. THE PRESIDENT: Anybody else? You guys okay? Please. Please. MR. BRIGHT: Our day that morning began — I’m a little taller — with some trees falling into our house, which our house is — goes back four generations, 80 years, and never came close to flooding. And we woke up with trees about 4:30 or 5:00 in the morning. And our house sits three tenths of a mile back off the road. And the water — you know, we’ve had flooding and such in the lake, but nothing like we saw. And like most everybody else, we moved five vehicles as far up — lawnmowers and everything else. And the water started coming in the house. And when it got up to about ankle high, we have a loft. I got her up in that and tried to gather what you might want, which was totally random. And when it made it to the loft and started getting up to about our hips, I built a little makeshift ladder, and we got out on our roof. And we spent four hours on the roof. I had a little baggie. I — I di- — I did notes on my cell phone to my two kids and my two grandkids and something to identify me, in case we were lost in it. THE PRESIDENT: Did you think you were going to make it? MR. BRIGHT: No. We — we’re — THE PRESIDENT: Oh, you didn’t think so? MR. BRIGHT: Yeah, we didn’t think we were going to make it at all. I mean, our house was 25 feet underwater. And — THE PRESIDENT: So, you didn’t think you were going to live? MR. BRIGHT: No, we were watching houses, trailers, bodies coming by us. And we live in the Azalea Road area of — in East Asheville. Oteen. MS. MITCHELL: We watched our garage lift up and float away. MR. BRIGHT: Yeah, we watched our garage float by. THE PRESIDENT: It just lift up? MR. BRIGHT: Yeah. But, you know, we — we got to a point where it crested about four feet up on the roof. We took about three or four hours for it so it could kind of do everything in reverse and got out in the mud to higher ground. And I got out — higher ground, up toward the Subway and got over to her daughter’s house, where — when she saw that I didn’t have her, she lost it. And I was like, “She’s okay. She’s alive.” And we tried to make our way back in there and gather things best we could. But, you know, found a body right away. We had — there was about eight bodies in our area that first two weeks, located. And we were lucky we weren’t one of them and — and blessed. But like other people, no insurance on flood insurance, so we — we had to depend on FEMA. They did what they could do. And, of course, it’s not enough. THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, no, I know. (Inaudible.) MR. BRIGHT: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible.) MR. BRIGHT: Yeah, no, it’s crazy. But, yeah, again, we’re thankful to be alive, but it’s a long haul. THE PRESIDENT: So, what are you doing now? MR. BRIGHT: Staying in a camper. I’ve never been — if you all have noticed, I’m a big guy. I don’t sleep in campers very — (laughter) — very well. And the — the first night we spent in the camper — very grateful with the Asheville Dream Center coming through with one and — THE PRESIDENT: Do you still have the land? MR. BRIGHT: Oh, yeah. It’s — it’s family land. Yeah, the land, it looks like a beach now; it’s sand. MS. MITCHELL: Yeah. MR. BRIGHT: But — THE PRESIDENT: Can it be built on? MR. BRIGHT: Yes. THE PRESIDENT: Do you intend to do that? MR. BRIGHT: Yes. THE PRESIDENT: You want to build again? MR. BRIGHT: Yeah, Samaritan’s Purse — we’re working with them. We’re working with people. We — you know, it’s — it’s 80 years, four generations. THE PRESIDENT: But the house is totally gone? MR. BRIGHT: No, the house is there. It’s down to — MS. MITCHELL: They — they gutted it to just the rafters. MR. BRIGHT: Yeah, they came in and mudded it, but everything in it was completely destroyed. But, yeah, it’s — it’s tough. I think we’re at a point in Asheville where peoples forgot about Asheville and — THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible.) MR. BRIGHT: It’s — it’s stag- — everything is stopped. THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible.) MR. BRIGHT: Yeah. Yeah. Thank you, sir. Appreciate that. THE PRESIDENT: We’re going to take care of you. MR. BRIGHT: Thank you, Jackie. MS. MITCHELL: Thank you. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. MS. MITCHELL: Thank you. Stay well. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. Please MS. NIX: I’m Pastor Nix. Our church is right down the road. We had only purchased in May, and it’s a big church. We’re a small congregation. And I had people say, “What are you going to do with this big building?” And I said, “Only God knows.” And we had our dedication, and the storm came the next week. And the outpouring of people — my son brought the first load of supplies. And from there, I stayed there for about three months. I slept on the floor for about three weeks because the need was so great. The people were so devastated. And I said, “I want to be here for them.” And they were coming in just day and night, so there’s really no need for me to go home. But we had people from Kentucky, Tennessee, Texas, Indiana, Oklahoma — people from all over. We have not received any help — like, from the government — anything. But I said, “Lord, if you want us to do that” — THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible) helped you? MS. NIX: People. THE PRESIDENT: So, they came from all over the — MS. NIX: All over the states. MR. BRIGHT: (Inaudible) groups, that’s what — that’s what did it. THE PRESIDENT: But FEMA — FEMA did nothing, right? MS. NIX: No. MR. BRIGHT: It was the — it was the — the locals. THE PRESIDENT: FEMA is a waste of time and money. MS. NIX: The locals and the people that — that knew us. And before the week was over, our church was so packed with supplies, we couldn’t even — we couldn’t even walk. Even in our sanctuary, it was up to the platform — THE PRESIDENT: That’s great. MS. NIX: — of things, and in our halls and in our rooms. And we’re just now beginning to get a little straightened out. But somebody said, “How long are you going to be here?” I said, “I’m going to be here through the winter and even on, if possible,” because when you meet people that’s been through this struggle — I had a little lady come up, and I said, “Can we do anything special for you?” And she said, “I don’t want to be selfish,” but said, “Could I have a cup of coffee?” And I handed her that coffee, and she stood there, and tears just poured. She said, “You don’t realize how — how important the — the little things.” It’s not the big things in life that we have, but it’s the little things and — and knowing that God is our source. I don’t look to man. I don’t have to have a lot of things. I — I had trees — about 20 trees down in my yard, but that didn’t really matter. It doesn’t matter, because the needs of the people is what — is what I want to be there for. And God is good. THE PRESIDENT: He’s very good. MS. NIX: He’s very good. And my daughter — now, she — her house is really in bad shape. And I’ll let her tell you about that. THE PRESIDENT: Okay. MS. NIX: But thank you, President. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. MS. NIX: This is our president. THE PRESIDENT: (Laughs.) MS. NIX: We appreciate you so much. THE FIRST LADY: Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank for all what you do. MS. NIX-ROPER: I live out in the Fairview area of North Carolina and the — near the Bat Cave, Lake Lure area, and our area was hit — it was hit really hard. I — I was home alone, and my husband had stayed in town because we take care of a little lady that’s 98 years old, and she lives out in the woods by herself. And I said, “Just stay with her and make sure that she’s okay.” And I got up the next morning, and my first thought was, “I want to go see what our road and bridge looks like.” So, as I was making it down to the road and the bridge, there was no road and bridge. And so, you know, here we are. We’re, like, in a little island. You know, we can’t access the main road or anything. And then the fire department came by the next day and said that they were evacuating me and my neighbor because a landslide was going to come, and they told me to get my stuff and get ready. And so, while I was getting my stuff and getting ready, there was a knock at the door. So, I thought it was the fireman. And I went to the door, and there stood my 21-year-old son — his name is Nathan — and he had drove as far as he could to get to me. But he hiked five miles, and it took him a really long time. And he got there, and he said — he said, “Mom, grab a bag. We got to go.” And I said, “Son, there’s no way I can — I can hike out of here.” And he’s like, “No.” He said, “We got to go.” So, we — we started hiking out, and I — and I seen one of my neighbors who — she had no clothes on. Her — her — she was — her skin was — was, like, chunked up. It was just — she was blue. She had been — she had been in the — in the waters. And where she had went or — or — I don’t know, but it — horrific, is just all I can say. But then, as — as me and my son hiked on out, we went through where this — this place — we call it Craigtown — but there were, like, a lot of family members there that passed away — like 11 of them. And — and there — there were people out everywhere looking for their loved ones. And there were — there were dead bodies, you know? My son’s like, “Mom, you’re going to see things you don’t want to see.” And so, anyway, we got through all that, but I stayed at our church in our sound booth. My husband and I, we just slept up in the sound booth for a couple of months because we didn’t have power or anything for about two months out there. And then we — we have went back. I’ve been fighting with FEMA since day one. Our community — there’s, like, 32 homes. We don’t have a road and a bridge. We’re driving through our neighbors’ property. You know, I went to EMS, and I said, “Look, my concern is, if we have a fire or we have an emergency out here, you’re not going to get to us. You can’t get those big trucks up here.” And — and I’ve called and called and called FEMA. And, you know, I said it’s — this happened on September 27th. That’s four months ago. Well, for us, today is still September 27th. You know, we haven’t had help. And so, when I talk to FEMA, I’m explaining the road and the bridge, and they send me a letter that tells me to — to basically fix it and send in my receipts, and they’ll refund me some money. I’m looking at a road and bridge that, honestly, the bridge itself is probably going to be $300,000, and the road could be close to that also, because we have to have — the community has to have big boulders brought in. We’re not a rich community. We can’t fix it ourself. You know, it’s just — and as far as, like, house repairs, I’m still pending. I can’t get money from FEMA until I fix the road and bridge and fen- — and send in my — my proof that it’s fixed and everything. It’s — it’s just — it’s been a nightmare. And I totally feel like — that we have been forgotten. If it had not been for — for our fellow American citizens who stepped up to help us, I don’t know what we would have done. I have — I have five neighbors around me who completely lost everything. You know, I have damage to my house and — and I feel — I don’t feel entitled. I’m embarrassed to even say I need help, because, you know — and sometimes there’s even that — that survivors’ guilt, is what they’re calling it. But you feel guilty to even be alive sometimes, you know, when you look around and you see your neighbors that are gone. And it’s just, you know — we — we need help. I wrote a letter that — to send to Congress. You know, “I don’t understand what’s going on. If we can’t get FEMA help, then will you guys help us? Will you step up and be our fellow citizen? Will you step up and be our neighbor and send us something. Help us. Help us get our community back.” It’s — I could go on. It’s just a — I don’t know, it’s just heartbreaking. I appreciate you. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. A good daughter you have, huh? A good daughter. Take care of mom. And your son must be great. MS. NIX-ROPER: My son is great. THE PRESIDENT: No, he sounds like a real leader and smart. MS. NIX-ROPER: He really is. Th- — to hike in — THE PRESIDENT: So, how would you have been if he didn’t come and get you? MS. NIX-ROPER: I don’t know. I’d — I’d just been — would have been there until — because the only thing we could do — there were no way to get out there. The only thing we could do is just hike up to the church, the first church that was up there — about three miles to — to get, you know, maybe what we needed — THE PRESIDENT: You tell him he’s just — MS. NIX-ROPER: — or some — I don’t know. THE PRESIDENT: Tell him he’s a real leader. MS. NIX-ROPER: He is. Thank you. THE PRESIDENT: Sounds good. Well, again, thank you very much, everybody. So, we’re going to be here. We’re going to be working with our congressmen and woman, and they’re going to do a job. And Michael Whatley is going to be very much in charge, and you’ll get it done. And FEMA is ready to rock. They haven’t done the job, because they weren’t really told to do the job by Biden. I guess Biden was thinking about other things, wasn’t he? But they weren’t told. What they did to — what the past administration did to North Carolina is a disgrace. So, I just want to wish you all well. I was here right after the event, and I couldn’t believe it. I have never seen anything like it. I’ve seen a lot of bad things, but I’ve never seen anything like it. And it’s an honor to meet the people behind me, and it’s an honor to be with our congressional delegation and some of the other politicians in the area. And it’s an honor to have Michael Whatley at my side, because maybe we wouldn’t be standing here as president if he wasn’t. Him and Lara — Lara Trump — were unbelievable as the head of the Republican Party. So, he happens to come from a place called North Carolina. So, I said, “Michael, fix it.” (Laughs.) So, good luck. Good luck. And we’ll supply what you need. You know that. Okay? Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you very much. Q Mr. President, what kind of role will Mr. Whatley have? Q Mr. President, I’m hearing all these heartbreaking stories and how there’s been so many local groups — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q — who have stepped up to — THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. Q — assist these families. THE PRESIDENT: That’s one of the things you hear. Q Is there any talk on having money — instead of going to FEMA and going through the bureaucracy — to go through them? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, that’s what I want to do. We want to bring it locally so that a state takes care of its problem, and then they can bring it down to a local level, like Samaritan’s Purse and Franklin, because that’s, you know, one of the better examples. But you had numbers of people that did a great job. You have groups that did a great job and organizations. The one that didn’t do a good job was the government. They did a bad job. They did in many ways, they did no job. They weren’t even available. So, good question. The answer is: We go local. I think it will work much better. FEMA is a very expensive organization that really doesn’t work out very well. It hasn’t. This is not the only example. So, if it was up to me right now, I’d end it right now, and I’d just let the state take care of the problem. I mean, you’re going to always have problems. Let the state — if it’s Florida, it’s a hurricane, let Florida take care of it. They don’t need FEMA to come in. Yeah. Q What kind of role do you envision for Mr. Whatley? Is it within FEMA, outside of FEMA? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah, I envision a very important role for him. It’s any role he wants. He’s a very capable guy. Michael Whatley, a very capable guy. And he’s friends and works with these guys. Keeps them elected, right? They have to do a good job. Otherwise, no matter how good Michael is, not going to work. But they’ve done an amazing job. They’ve been great. You’re lucky. You have great congressmen here and — and -woman, by the way — a great woman, very powerful woman. And they’re going to do a great job. They’ll do it together. They’ll work together, and we’ll supply what they need as they need it. We’ll coordinate that. And we will immediately get the Army Corps, Michael, because you need roads built. You know, we’re talking about the bridge, we’re talking about roads and things, so we’ve got to get them built. All right? Okay? Thank you all very much. Thank you very much. END 1:10 P.M. EST 
REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP ON THE ECONOMY Circa Resort & Casino Las Vegas, Nevada (January 25, 2025) 12:39 P.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: Ah, hello, Las Vegas. Hello, Las Vegas. Hello, Nevada. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you. AUDIENCE: Trump! Trump! Trump! THE PRESIDENT: Well, we won. We won. We won. (Applause.) And it’s great to be back in this beautiful city to celebrate the historic first week in the White House. That was definitely a start. (Applause.) And I had a lot of help in winning. Joe Lombardo, your governor, is here someplace. Where’s Joe? (Applause.) Thank you, Joe. You’re looking good, Joe. Thank you very much. What a group. Look at who you have next you. How can you fail with that guy? (Applause.) Also, Lieutenant Governor Stavros. Anthony Stavros, thank you very much. (Applause.) Thank you very much. Where are you? There you are, Stavros. You’re very good. Is he doing a good job, Joe? I think so, huh? He’s all right, huh? (Laughter.) Nevada GOP Chair Michael McDonald, he — (applause) — he did something which not a lot of people have been able to do, but I think Republicans are going to start winning this state. You know, typically, they don’t necessarily do so good. We did really well. (Applause.) We won in a landslide. That’s really why I’m here, I must be honest with you. Republican National Committeewoman Sigal Chattah. (Applause.) Sigal, thank you, wherever you may be. Hi, Sigal. Thank you very much. Republican National Committeeman Jim DeGraffenreid. (Applause.) That’s a hell of a beautiful name. But I know the name so long, it’s easy to say. One of the greatest people, I’ll tell you — a man who’s done so damn well. I don’t know what it is with him. He’s just a legend. He’s one person — you know, we can all sort of be replaced, although we don’t like to think that — maybe it’s not true — but this is a guy that can’t be replaced. There’s nobody like him: Dana White. (Applause.) Where’s Dana White? Where is Dana White? Where the hell is he? UFC. AUDIENCE MEMBER: Nelk Boys! THE PRESIDENT: He’s great. Are the Nelk Boys here? Oh, yeah. There they are, the Nelk Boys. Right there. (Applause.) (Laughs.) And Rick Harrison. Rick, thank you very much for being here. (Applause.) You’re around here someplace with Dana. Mr. Phil Ruffin; his wife, Oleksandra; and their two beautiful children, Richard and Malena. (Applause.) Phil? Where’s Ruffin? Where is Phil Ruffin? He’s right here. Say, he’s some legend, I’ll tell you. He’s a legend in Las Vegas and beyond. Phil. He’s here. He’ll be coming out. Today, we talk about how we’re going to end the economic suffering and stagnation and disaster of the past four years and create the four greatest years in the history of our country. That’s what’s going to happen. (Applause.) That’s what’s going to happen. And as I said in my Inaugural Address which, by the way, it got the highest rating in the history of Fox. (Applause.) Can you believe that? That’s nice — “the golden age of America begins right now.” (Applause.) But I have to be honest with you, I’m really here for a different reason. I’m here to say thank you. (Applause.) I went to North Carolina yesterday, and then I flew to see just an unbelievable problem in — just a mess in Los Angeles, right? And I said, “You know what I ought to do? I want to come to a state known as ‘Nevada.’” Has anyone ever heard of it? (Applause.) And don’t ever mispronounce the name. You’re not allowed to do that, Chair. You mispronounce the name; you’re going have a problem. (Laughter.) You ever see somebody when they say it’s “Nev-ah-da”? AUDIENCE: Booo — THE PRESIDENT: “Nev-ah-da”? No, they’re in deep — they’re in deep trouble. I want to come to Nevada to pay my respects, because this is the only Republican win of this state in decades, and it was a very big landslide, so — (applause). But I think Republicans are going to win a lot now. But it was a big — we had a big win, and it was an early win. And that was a bad signal for the Democrats; they heard that we were leading so big here. And Joe helped us so much, and a lot of people in this room helped us a lot. Special group. Special group. And so, I said, “You know what I’ll do? We’re going to fly around it.” And I said, “Let’s fly right over it. Let’s land, and I’ll do something. And I’ll just say it.” But I want to say it, and I’m almost saying it right here for the media. I just came here because I wanted to thank the people of Nevada for giving us such a big win. (Applause.) AUDIENCE: USA! USA! USA! THE PRESIDENT: Right. AUDIENCE: USA! USA! USA! THE PRESIDENT: A lot of great friends. I better not introduce them all, I’ll be here all day. Under our leadership, we’re going to defeat inflation, bring down prices, we’re going to raise those wages. They’re going to go up. (Applause.) They’re going to go up. Put more money in your pocket, secure our borders, restore law and order to our cities, and we’re going to make America great again. (Applause.) And for four long years, the last administration waged war on the American middle class and everybody else. They had a lot of wars. We had no wars when I left. You know, we defeated ISIS, and we stayed out. Nobody wanted to mess with us. They had a lot of wars. We’re still — we’re trying to put them out. We’ll get them put out. Don’t worry, we’ll get them put out. We were — we were headed to World War III. I’m telling you; we would have had problems like you wouldn’t believe. They shut down American energy; buried you in crippling regulation; imposed hidden taxes; and spent trillions and trillions of dollars on waste, corruption, and radical left lunacy. These were lunatics. The result was the most brutal inflation in a half a century — perhaps ever in this country — I think ever — and soaring prices for food, groceries, and other household goods. The people of Nevada are now paying nearly $1,200 per month more to make ends meet since I left office. Think of that: $1,200, at least. But since I became the 47th president at noon on Monday, I’ve been moving with urgency and historic speed — (applause) — to fix every single calamity of the Biden administration that they’ve created. And this week alone, I took nearly 350 executive actions to reverse — (applause) — the horrible failures and betrayals that we inherited from a group of people that didn’t know what the hell they were doing. (Laughter.) What they’ve done to the — what they’ve done to this country, especially the open borders, where they have — think of it — 21 million people came in. Many of them are criminals, murderers. Well, we’re getting them out. You see it. You see it yesterday — first day. (Applause.) Our message could not be clearer: America’s decline is over. American decline is over. We’re laughed at all over the world. Now we’re not laughed at anymore, I’ll tell you. What the world witnessed this week is nothing less than a revolution of wealth creation for everyone and also common sense. It’s about common sense. It really is. We’re the party of common sense. (Applause.) On day one, I directed every member of my Cabinet to — and, by the way, Pete Hegseth got approved. (Applause.) And Kristi Noem just got approved. Governor, she’s going it — (applause). She’s tough. She’s a tough one. She’s a tough one, and she’s going to do a great job. On day one, I directed every member of my Cabinet to marshal all powers at their disposal to defeat inflation and bring down the cost of daily life. We want to bring prices down. Too high. They went way up. They didn’t come down. I imposed a federal hiring freeze, a federal regulation freeze, a foreign aid freeze. Oh, that’s a nice one. (Applause.) And I created the new Department of Government Efficiency. And we’re going to have a lot of good people — Elon. We’re going to get Elon Musk to get involved in that a little bit. (Applause.) He already is. People like him. I terminated the ridiculous and incredibly wasteful Green New Scam. (Applause.) Wasn’t the environment supposed to eat us up, like, in 12 years? But that was, like, 13 years ago. What happened? We’re still here. We’re still here. Remember, “We have 12 years to live.” Remember that? Done by somebody that never even took a course on the environment. AOC plus three. Do you remember those three? They were telling us about the environment. AOC plus three. This action alone will save hundreds of billions of dollars of American taxpayers’ money. I withdrew from the one-sided Paris Climate Accord. (Applause.) And I canceled the insane and costly electric vehicle mandate — (applause) — keeping my sacred pledge to America’s autoworkers. Boy, did we get a big vote with the autoworkers, I’ll tell you — and the Teamsters. Any Teamster in the room? (Applause.) We got a tremendous vote from the Teamsters. Thank you. (Laughs.) Pointing like — one — one guy, all there is. (Laughter.) But they voted for us in the millions. We had a lot of Teamsters voting for us. I withdrew from the World Health Organization — (applause) — where we paid $500 million a year and China paid $39 million a year, despite a much larger population. Think of that: China is paying $39 million. They have 1.4 billion people. We pay $500 million. We have — nobody knows what the hell we have. Does anyone know? (Laughter.) We have so many people pouring in, we have no idea. We go up, but we’re going down a little bit now. You don’t mind that, do you? (Applause.) Going to take some bad ones out. I would do it four years ago, but Biden immediately went back for even more money. I mean, he went back and — you know, they offered me at $39 million. They said, “We’ll let you back in at $39. So, we’re going to reduce it from $500 to $39.” I turned them down, because it became so popular. I didn’t know if it would be well received, even at $39. But maybe we would consider doing it again. I don’t know. Maybe we would. They have to clean it up a little bit. But China pays $39 million for 1.4 billion, and we’re paying $500 million for 325 million. I don’t know what the hell is wrong with these people. (Laughter.) And then when Biden went back in — you know, they immediately went back in — they paid more than we were paying in the first place. They paid more than the $500 million. So, they knew they could have had it for $39. They paid more. You wouldn’t do that, Joe, right? No, think of it. They know they have a deal at $39, so they went back in at $525 million. What the hell? Man, oh, man. It just infuriates you, doesn’t it? I declared a national energy emergency to unlock the liquid gold under our feet — (applause) — and pave the way for rapid approvals of the new energy infrastructure. (Applause.) The United States has the largest amount of oil and gas of any country on Earth. We may be a very substantially enlarged country in the not too distant– isn’t it nice to see? You know, for years, for decades, we’re the same size to the square foot — probably got smaller, actually — but we might be an enlarged country pretty soon. And one of the things we’re going to be doing is drill, baby — AUDIENCE: Drill! THE PRESIDENT: — drill. (Applause.) Because that’s going to bring everything down. It’s going to bring everything down. My administration has also begun the largest deregulation campaign in the history of our country, far exceeding I had the record four year — we ran — we had a great economy — the greatest economy that we’ve ever had — four years ago. But this is going to be better. You watch, this will be better even than the first term. (Applause.) And the reason I got elected was because of the first term. You know, somebody said, “What was the reason you got elected? I mean, you won by so much.” I said, “My first term.” (Applause.) You know. It’s all I did. I just said, “Well, take a look at the numbers. Take a look at the numbers.” In total, the Biden administration imposed $50,000 in additional regulation costs on the average American. And think of this: The average American was paying much more than $50,000. And, you know, just think of it. Nobody can even believe the numbers. I promise to eliminate 10 old regulations for every new regulation. So, if we put in a regulation — (applause) — we have to get rid of 10. That’s what I did. I did it — I did it one in seven. We’re going to do 1 in 10 this time, which will soon put many thousands of dollars back into your pockets, in the pockets of American families. As a result of the reforms, we’ve just begun to implement economic confidence, and it’s soaring. So, this week, Oracle, OpenAI, and SoftBank announced Stargate, a $500 billion investment in AI infrastructure — which is going to be very big for Nevada, I have to tell you, the largest in history, and which will create an estimated 100,000 American jobs. (Applause.) Saudi Arabia just said that they’re going to invest at least $600 billion. This is because of the election, by the way. (Applause.) And I believe they’ll make it a trillion. I’m going to ask them to make it $1 trillion. What the hell, the money means nothing to them. You know, where they made their money? From liquid gold, right? They got a lot of liquid gold. We have more. We have more than Saudi Arabia. They’ve got a lot. We’ve got more. We’ve got more than anybody. We just don’t use it because of the environment. These people are crazy. (Laughter.) And many other companies, likewise, are looking to invest, but I don’t have enough time to do that, and we have a lot of news conferences. Everybody wants to have a news conference. You know, they’re calling up by the hundreds, “We want to have a news conference. We’re going to invest $12.” (Laughter.) I said, “No, I don’t do that.” I said, “It’s got to be $1 billion or more for a news conference.” (Laughter and applause.) It’s $1 billion or more. Just two days ago, because of our tariff plans, Stellantis announced — that’s a very good automobile company — the revival of its Belvidere, Illinois, plant, saving 1,500 American auto jobs that were previously headed to Canada — (applause) — along with major investments to expand American auto production in Detroit, Michigan; Toledo, Ohio; and Kokomo, Indiana. Good place. All of these investments are happening only because of our historic victory. And if we didn’t win, it’d be just the opposite. They’re pulling out. They were pulling out. They were really pulling out. So, they would be withdrawing money. Our country was on the verge of some of the very bad things, and bad things were happening. And now there’s light, not only over America — I’ve heard it from even our enemies. They call up and they say, “Sir, we hate you. We do hate you, but there’s light over the world right now.” (Laughter.) They hate me. Some of them hate me. If they liked me, you got a problem, right? They liked Sleepy Joe. What’s not to like? AUDIENCE: Booo — THE PRESIDENT: You know, they’d call up — it’s funny. I was told today by one of the big leaders of the world — would call for a telephone call with the president of the United States a year ago, and they’d say, “We’d like to speak with….” “Who is this?” “It’s the head of Germany, the head of — it’s” — name it — “the head of France.” The name of any country; it didn’t matter. He would never pick up the call. They’d say, “He’ll call you back in two months.” (Laughter.) “Two months?” AUDIENCE MEMBER: He’s sleeping! THE PRESIDENT: “Yeah, it’s his schedule. He’s extremely busy” — (laughs) — sleeping — no, it — (laughter) — Macron of France, “He’ll call you back in two months.” So, two months comes along, and there’s no call. They’d say — AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible.) THE PRESIDENT: — “He didn’t call.” (Laughs.) He’s — (laughter) — The stories are — I mean, these stories are not very exaggerated. I want to tell you, they’re a little bit for laughter, but, you know, it’s only for laughter. The fake news will say, “Oh, he exaggerated. It was only one month.” You know? (Laughter.) But they would say, “He’ll call you back.” And then he’d never call, and then they could never get him on the phone. And the problem I have is that when I speak to the — and I speak to them immediately — they’ll say, “Could we speak to the president? Would that be possible? We can do it any time over the next month.” They’re so used to this, right? I say, “No, I’ll pick it up right now. Is he on the other phone?” “Yeah.” “Hello. How you doing?” (Laughter.) That’s what — you know, get it — get it over with, right? (Applause.) Get it over with. The only problem: They were so starved for love from the United States, I cannot get them off the phone. (Laughter.) I can’t get people — if you can’t, I say, “I have to go now, King,” or “I have to go now, President.” (Laughter.) But you can’t get them off the phone. They’re starved for love. You know, for years, they haven’t spoken. (Laughter.) They didn’t even know we had a president, if you want to know. (Laughter.) But under our leadership, America is back, open for business, and it’s really a big deal. (Applause.) It’s really a big — And they have, though. They said, you know, there’s like a light all over the world now. It’s not just here. We feel the light over our country. Everyone does. But there’s a light all over the world. We’ve accomplished more in one week that other administrations have accomplished in four years, and we’re just getting started. (Applause.) We got rid of the woke. We got rid of the woke crap. What a lot — (applause) — what a lot of stuff. What a lot of crap that was. (Laughter.) It was — and, you know, these people were petrified of it. I’ll tell you, these companies — they run these big companies — they were petrified of it. It was like — you know, I don’t think they believed it. I’m sure they didn’t believe it. Some, I know, didn’t believe it, but they were so afraid. Near the top of the agenda for our historic Republican majorities in Congress is to pass a massive tax cut for American workers and families. Last year, we campaigned across the country on a pledge that I’m sure most of you didn’t hear too much about — a pledge to take the Trump tax cuts and make them permanent, and that’s exactly what we’re doing. (Applause.) In the coming weeks, I’ll be working with Congress to get a bill on my desk that cuts taxes for workers, families, small businesses, and, very importantly, keeps my promise for a thing called — and I know you didn’t hear anything about this, and I’m sure it had no influence on the state; the fact that we won this crazy, massive majority — the state that hadn’t been won by a Republican in decades. But I’m sure you haven’t heard, but we’re going to get it for you: No tax on tips. Right? (Applause.) No tax on tips. Right? So, if you’re a restaurant worker, a server, a valet, a bellhop, a bartender, or one of my caddies — I go through caddies like candy — (laughter); if I play badly, I always blame my caddy — (laughter) — or any other worker who relies on tipped income, your tips will be 100 percent yours. Won’t that be nice? (Applause.) Joe — Governor, do you think that had an impact on the election? GOVERNOR LOMBARDO: Absolutely! THE PRESIDENT: You do? Like, what, a half a point? (Laughter.) It’s pretty big. You had an impact, let me tell you. Nationwide, over 4 million workers depend on tip income, including an estimated 700,000 single moms. And here in Nevada, we will have a quarter — think of it, a quarter of the typical restaurant worker’s pay comes from tips. I didn’t know that much. That’s a lot. You haven’t been reporting them for the last 10 years. (Laughter.) So, here’s our deal, we’re going to have no tax on tips from now on, but we’re going to go after you viciously for all the money you didn’t report for the last ten, fif- — (laughter) — we’re going to go after you for all the money you didn’t report for — I’m only kidding. (Laughter.) I’m only kidding. I have to say to the fake news, because they’re going to say, “Trump is after all restaurant workers.” Many of these workers are some of the very citizens who were hit hard and very hard by the ravages of the Biden economy, which was inflation. When I think of Biden, I think of incompetence — (laughter) — and inflation. I’m being nice by saying — I’m being nice when I say that. Yet, even in the midst of the suffering he created, Joe Biden launched a cruel campaign to extract more money from tip workers, and that’s what happened. I’m telling you, a young waitress — I won’t say “beautiful,” because you’re not allowed to say that — (laughter) — as a politician. It used to be, you could say, “A young, beautiful waitress,” because — and this was a young, beautiful waitress, but I won’t say that because I feel like — (laughter) — I want to continue my political career. (Laughter.) If you call some the governor won’t say it. If you call a woman “beautiful” today, it’s the end of your political career, so I won’t do it. (Laughter.) But a young waitress — I think you could call “young.” You’re probably not even supposed to say “young.” (Laughter.) You’re probably supposed to say “a waitress.” (Laughter.) But a young waitress came up, and I said, “How are you doing?” And in my restaurant, in the hotel, in Trump — I said, “How are you doing?” And she said, “Not great, because they’re after me so viciously for tips. They just want my tip income, and they don’t believe me,” and all of this. And she said, “It’s terrible. You know, sir, you should have no tax on tips.” I said, “What?” (Laughter.) I said, “What you just say?” “No tax on tips.” That was about the amount of my consultation. (Laughter.) It’s true. No tax. I said, “What did you just say? Say those words again.” “Sir, no tax on tips.” I said, are you — thank you very much. You just won the election for” — (applause). No, but, we did research into it. I think it’s going to be great. But under the Trump administration, the forgotten men and women of our country are going to be forgotten no longer. You know that. They weren’t forgotten four years ago. On day one, I immediately halted the hiring of any new IRS agents. You know they hired — (applause) — they hired or tried to hire 88,000 new workers to go after you, and we’re in the process of developing a plan to either terminate all of them, or maybe we’ll move them to the border. (Applause.) I think we’re going to move them to the border. (Applause.) Well, they’re allowed to carry guns. You know, they’re so strong on guns, but these people are allowed to carry guns, so we’ll probably move them to the border. AUDIENCE MEMBER: How about no tax on anything? THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. (Laughs.) She said “no tax on any-” — how about just no tax, period? (Applause.) We could do that. You know, if the tariffs work out like I think, a thing like that could happen, if you want to know the truth. (Applause.) You know, years ago, 1870 to 1913, we didn’t have an income tax. What we had is tariffs. Where foreign countries came in and they stole our jobs, they stole our companies, they stole our product, they ripped us off, and, you know, they used to do numbers, and then we went to tariff — a tariff system. And the tariff system made so much money. It was when we were the richest — from 1870 to 1913 — then we came in with the — brilliantly came in with an income tax. “No, we don’t want others to pay. Let’s have our people pay.” And then you had the depression in 1928, 1929. I call it 1929. That was a bad time. But, you know, you didn’t have tariffs, and you had tariffs that ended in 1913. But it was the richest our country ever was. That was President McKinley. In fact, we’re renaming the mountain “Mount McKinley” — in Alaska. (Applause.) You know what else we’re renaming? We’re renaming the Gulf of — AUDIENCE MEMBERS: Mexico! AUDIENCE MEMBERS: America! THE PRESIDENT: — Mexico into the Gulf of America. Right? (Applause.) And Mexico — actually, they were thrilled when they heard. They said, “That’s nice.” A few months from now, when I sign our tax cut into law, we’re going to deliver for the tip-earning men and women who make it all work. I mean, it’s going to be something very special, I think, for you. It’s going to be a big difference. And with us today is Jessica Angiano [ph], an employee here at Circa. This is a nice place, by the way, and I just met your owner. He’s a nice man. He’s rich, too — very rich. (Laughter and applause.) But Circa is very nice. And a hardworking single mother of two with incredible children, Jessica is struggling to pay for medical bills to remove a tumor behind her right eye. She’s had some real difficulty, and she’s currently saving up for a second surgery, which will hopefully be very successful, while also paying for her children’s day care. Jessica says that no tax on tips would transform her life. It would make such a big difference. So, Jessica, we’re going to get that for you. Where are you, Jessica? You’re around here someplace, huh? Hi, Jessica. Oh, so beautiful. (Applause.) Very nice. It’s working out, medically, good? Everything good? Going to be good. I think it’s going to. You look fantastic. It’s good. You look great. Also with us is Lexi York, a 28-year-old cocktail server here at Circa, who’s got big dreams of being an entrepreneur. Lexi says that no tax on tips will help bring those dreams much closer to reach and she’s going to be one of the biggest proponents for it. We’re going to have a lot of support when we go before Congress very soon to get that passed. Lexi, where are you? Where are you? Hi, Lexi. (Applause.) Wow. Good. We’ll get it done. And we’re also pleased to be joined by Rosanna Maietta, president and CEO of the American Hotel and Lodging Association, which strongly supports this pro-worker reform. And, Rosanna, would you like to come up and say a few words on behalf of so many people? Come on up. Come on up. (Applause.) AUDIENCE MEMBER: We love you, Trump! (Applause.) THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible.) MS. MAIETTA: It’s so nice to meet you. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. MS. MAIETTA: Thank you. Hello, Mr. President, on behalf of the American Hotel and Lodging Association, I’m so honored to be here today. We represent 30,000 members around the country in an industry that represents more than 2 million hotel workers. And I am here to tell you that the American dream is alive and well in the hotel industry today. (Applause.) It is still one of the few places where you can have and grow your career, starting a job as a housekeeper or a dishwasher or bellhop, to running a hotel, to owning a hotel or a few, and to even becoming the CEO of a global brand or president of the United States. (Applause.) Mr. President, in 2017, the tax bill that you championed cut taxes for so many working families and American workers. It helped small businesses — small bus- — hotel owners in our country, who make up the majority of the industry, reinvest in the economy, spurring jobs and — and cur- — and growing and strengthening the economy. And the no tax on tips builds on that momentum, and so we are so excited to support you in that effort. That’s why we’re here today. We stand with you to urge Congress to pass this proposal so that more than the 800,000 hotel workers who benefit from these — from tips, many who are here in the room today, representing all — all types of jobs — from restaurant workers to housekeepers to bellhops and so many others — can take home more of the pay that they earn every day. So, thank you for having us and for promoting this proposal. (Applause.) THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. Well done. Thank you very much, Jessica [Rosanna]. Great. After for you- — long years — and these were long years — of a government that always put you last — they put America last, they put you last, they put everybody last that was associated with us — you once again have a president that is putting our workers first, putting our families first, and above all, putting America first, and we’re going to keep America first. And you see it. (Applause.) We’re restoring our prosperity. We’re restoring our borders. We’re restoring our strength, our dignity, and our pride. We’ve been hurt badly by this group of people — this group of people. They didn’t have a clue what the hell was happening. It’s so disgraceful that they were allowed to do it. But quite honestly, we’re restoring our country. Within hours of taking the oath of office, I declared a national emergency at our southern border. (Applause.) I sent active-duty troops to the border to help repel the invasion. Tom Homan is leading the charge. You know that. We like Tom Homan, right? Doing a great job. We immediately halted all illegal entry and began sending every border trespasser and violator back to the places from which they came. (Applause.) I signed an order that will designate the cartels as “foreign terrorist organizations.” (Applause.) It’s a big deal. That’s a big deal. Biden didn’t want to do that. “No, I don’t want to that.” Biden didn’t know he was alive. (Laughter.) He didn’t want to do it. He didn’t want to do that. I always wanted to do it, you know? I mean, think of it. Is that a terrorist organization or what? And we began to leverage the full and immense power of federal government and state government and enforcement to eliminate the presence of all foreign gangs and criminal networks bringing devastating crime to American soil. And we don’t allow people to enter our country and to dump their prisons into the United States of America anymore. (Applause.) When we see that, our people are instructed to do whatever they have to do. They can do whatever the hell they want to do. Throughout this week, the heroes of ICE have been hunting down and arresting hundreds of illegal alien criminals. (Applause.) And it’s immediate expulsion, including those with charges of convictions for rape, child sexual assault, terrorism and even murder. Members of the savage Venezuelan prison gang known as Tren de Aragua — you know that gang? This is not a nice group of people. They formed in prison, and then they dumped their prisons into our country. So, we had them all over the place. Ask Colorado. The governor of Colorado, he doesn’t know what to do about it. They’re all over the place. We’ll get them out. We’ll get them out. (Applause.) They’re — in a sense, they’re in the real estate business. They go into a building, and they take it. You know? (Laughter.) See, when you buy a building, you have to go out and get a mortgage or use your own cash. They just go into a building and take it. And they actually said, “Well, it’s not that bad. They haven’t taken that many buildings.” Can you imagine that? “They haven’t taken that many buildings. Oh, they’re not that bad.” But they’re bad as the bloodthirsty MS-13 gangs that we have gotten thousands and thousands of them out. In fact, over 11,000 murderers were released into our country by other countries all over the world because of Biden’s open-border policy. When I heard about that, I said, “They’re just going to — everybody is going to empty out their prisons into our country.” I said that. I’d do that if I were heading up any one of the many countries that you know about. Not just South America, all over — they take their prisons, their mental institutions and they empty them out into our country. Can you imagine a person doing this? Can you imagine somebody doing that to our country? For American citizens, January 20th, 2025, was truly liberation day. (Applause.) That was really liberation day. This week, I also signed an order to end the weaponization of our government against American people and political people like me. (Applause.) We never had a thing like that. He went after his political opponent. Who would have thought he helped me? I think you helped me get elected, Joe, you want to know the truth. I became much more popular — I’m the only guy that ever became more popular when something like that happened. But they — these guys were just so inept. We had the guy Deranged Jack Smith — deranged. He was a deranged human being. AUDIENCE: Booo — THE PRESIDENT: But they thought this way Biden could sneak by and he could win an election, another — cheating in another election. That’s what it was. But we won. We won. You think that was fun? You think that was easy? (Applause.) It wasn’t fun. And investigate all of the abuses of power — I pardoned hundreds of political prisoners who had been viciously persecuted — (applause) — by the Biden regime. Hundreds of people were persecuted, including Christians, pro-life activists, two Washington, D.C., police officers just yesterday, whose lives were destroyed from chasing down a dangerous, illegal alien criminal. And of course, I was very proud to pardon the J6 hostages. (Applause.) Once and for all, I stopped government censorship, and we brought back free speech in America. We brought it back. We did more in this last week — people can’t even believe it. I also signed an order to declassify and publish all remaining files related to the assassinations — (applause) — of President John F. Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, and Martin Luther King, Jr. I signed an order that will end all of the lawless diversity, equity, and inclusion nonsense — (applause) — all across the government and the private sector. We abolished 60 years of prejudice and hatred with the signing of one order, all approved by the United States Supreme Court. We’re allowed to do it because we are now in a merit-based world. (Applause.) We’re a merit-based country. Did you ever think you’re going to hear that again? It’s based on merit. If you’ve got the talent, if you’ve got the work, the ethic, the whole thing, it’s based now on — it’s not based on any other thing. It’s based on merit. It’s based on your capability. The United States has now become, again, a meritocracy. Isn’t that a beautiful word? A meritocracy. Based on merit — if you do your job well, you’re going to go places. And I made it the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders: male and female. (Applause.) Male and female. Every single day of my term, we’re living by the motto “Promises made, promises kept.” I kept my promises. It’s why we won. It really is why we won. We won because of the past four years. We won because of that. But this is going to blow it away, because when I came in, I had no experience. I didn’t do this before. I never did this. I was never a politician before. I was talking — JD Vance — by the way, hasn’t he done a great job, JD Vance? (Applause.) Because JD went right to the Senate, and then he went to the vice president. I said, “JD, you’re really upwardly mobile.” He said, “You’re more so than me.” I said, “Why do you say that?” He said, “You went from being a real estate developer to the president.” That’s a pretty big — I never thought of it that way. I guess I’m the most upwardly mobile politician in history. (Applause.) I didn’t make any stops along the way. It will be the greatest honor of my life to serve not once but twice — or three times or four times. (Laughs.) No. (Applause.) Headlines — headlines from the fake news. No. No, it will be to serve twice. For the next four years, I will not rest, I will not yield, and together we will not fail. We will win, win, win. (Applause.) We will bring back the American dream. We’re going to bring it back. You know, in recent years, our nation has suffered greatly, but we are going to make it great again, greater than ever before. We’ll be a nation like no other, full of compassion, courage, and exceptionalism. That’s what we’re doing, and that’s what it’s all about. And you see that — I think you see it more in the last week than you’ve seen it in years. And I walked up the stairs of that massive plane that’s waiting for me, that big 747, and I said, “There’s no way I’m going to let myself fall because that was — (laughter) — that was one hell of a” — that triple fall was a disaster. I would call that a political disaster. You can fall once, you can fall twice, but you can’t fall three times. (Laughter.) You can’t fall three times. What a disaster. I’ve used that in every ad I think I ever did. (Laughter.) Our power will stop all wars and bring new spirit of unity to a world that’s been angry, violent, and very unpredictable. America will be respected again and admired again, including by the people of religion, faith, and goodwill. We’re bringing back religion in this country. (Applause.) We will be prosperous. We will be free. We will be bigger, bolder, and more ambitious than ever before. And together, we will make America powerful again — (applause); make America wealthy again — (applause); make America healthy again. (Applause.) We will make America strong again. (Applause.) Make America proud again. (Applause.) We’re going to make America safe again. (Applause.) And we will — AUDIENCE: Make America great again! THE PRESIDENT: — make America great again! (Applause.) Thank you very much. And thank you very much, Nevada. Thank you, Joe. Thank you very much. We’ll be back. We’ll be back. Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you, my man. Great job. Thank you, everybody. (Applause.) END 1:40 P.M. PST 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Purpose. The United States has long been at the forefront of artificial intelligence (AI) innovation, driven by the strength of our free markets, world-class research institutions, and entrepreneurial spirit. To maintain this leadership, we must develop AI systems that are free from ideological bias or engineered social agendas. With the right Government policies, we can solidify our position as the global leader in AI and secure a brighter future for all Americans.This order revokes certain existing AI policies and directives that act as barriers to American AI innovation, clearing a path for the United States to act decisively to retain global leadership in artificial intelligence. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to sustain and enhance America’s global AI dominance in order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security. Sec. 3. Definition. For the purposes of this order, “artificial intelligence” or “AI” has the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C. 9401(3). Sec. 4. Developing an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan. (a) Within 180 days of this order, the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology (APST), the Special Advisor for AI and Crypto, and the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (APNSA), in coordination with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB Director), and the heads of such executive departments and agencies (agencies) as the APST and APNSA deem relevant, shall develop and submit to the President an action plan to achieve the policy set forth in section 2 of this order. Sec. 5. Implementation of Order Revocation. (a) The APST, the Special Advisor for AI and Crypto, and the APNSA shall immediately review, in coordination with the heads of all agencies as they deem relevant, all policies, directives, regulations, orders, and other actions taken pursuant to the revoked Executive Order 14110 of October 30, 2023 (Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence). The APST, the Special Advisor for AI and Crypto, and the APNSA shall, in coordination with the heads of relevant agencies, identify any actions taken pursuant to Executive Order 14110 that are or may be inconsistent with, or present obstacles to, the policy set forth in section 2 of this order. For any such agency actions identified, the heads of agencies shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, suspend, revise, or rescind such actions, or propose suspending, revising, or rescinding such actions. If in any case such suspension, revision, or rescission cannot be finalized immediately, the APST and the heads of agencies shall promptly take steps to provide all available exemptions authorized by any such orders, rules, regulations, guidelines, or policies, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, until such action can be finalized.(b) Within 60 days of this order, the OMB Director, in coordination with the APST, shall revise OMB Memoranda M-24-10 and M-24-18 as necessary to make them consistent with the policy set forth in section 2 of this order. Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE,January 23, 2025.
January 20, 2025 MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES SUBJECT: Restoring Accountability for Career Senior Executives Career Senior Executive Service (SES) officials are charged to “ensure that the executive management of the Government of the United States is responsive to the needs, policies, and goals of the Nation and otherwise is of the highest quality,” as required by section 3131 of title 5, United States Code. SES officials have enormous influence over the functioning of the Federal Government, and thus the well-being of hundreds of millions of Americans. As the Constitution makes clear, and as the Supreme Court of the United States has reaffirmed, “the ‘executive Power’ — all of it — is ‘vested in a President,’ who must ‘take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.’” Seila Law LLC v. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 591 U.S. 197, 203 (2020). “Because no single person could fulfill that responsibility alone, the Framers expected that the President would rely on subordinate officers for assistance.” Id. at 203–04. The President’s power to remove subordinates is a core part of the Executive power vested by Article II of the Constitution and is necessary for the President to perform his duty to “take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.” Because SES officials wield significant governmental authority, they must serve at the pleasure of the President. Only that chain of responsibility ensures that SES officials are properly accountable to the President and the American people. If career SES officials fail to faithfully fulfill their duties to advance the needs, policies, and goals of the United States, the President must be able to rectify the situation and ensure that the entire Executive Branch faithfully executes the law. For instance, SES officials who engage in unauthorized disclosure of Executive Branch deliberations, violate the constitutional rights of Americans, refuse to implement policy priorities, or perform their duties inefficiently or negligently should be held accountable. The President must be able to trust that the Executive Branch will work together in service of the Nation. My Administration will restore a “government of the people, by the people, for the people.” Therefore: (a) Within 30 days of the signing of this memorandum, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), in coordination with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), shall issue SES Performance Plans that agencies must adopt; (b) Agency heads, who along with their senior staff manage career SES officials as one of their core functions, shall use all available authorities to reinvigorate the SES system and prioritize accountability; (c) Each agency head shall, as necessary and appropriate and consistent with the procedural requirements of section 3395 of title 5, United States Code, reassign agency SES members to ensure their knowledge, skills, abilities, and mission assignments are optimally aligned to implement my agenda; (d) Each agency head should terminate its existing Executive Resources Board (ERB), institute a new or interim ERB, and assign senior noncareer officials to chair and serve on the board as a majority alongside career members; (e) Each agency head should terminate its existing Performance Review Board membership and re-constitute membership with individuals committed to full enforcement of SES performance evaluations that promote and assure an SES of the highest caliber; and (f) Any agency head who becomes aware of an SES official whose performance or continued occupancy of the position is inconsistent with either the principles reaffirmed in this Order or their duties to the Nation under section 3131 of title 5, United States Code, shall immediately take all appropriate actions, up to and including removal of that official, with the support of OPM and OMB. Restoring an accountable government workforce is a top priority of my Administration. 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including sections 3301, 3302, and 7511 of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Purpose. Article II of the United States Constitution vests the President with the sole and exclusive authority over the executive branch, including the authority to manage the Federal workforce to ensure effective execution of Federal law. A critical aspect of this executive function is the responsibility to maintain professionalism and accountability within the civil service. This accountability is sorely lacking today. Only 41 percent of civil service supervisors are confident that they can remove an employee who engaged in insubordination or serious misconduct. Even fewer supervisors –- 26 percent — are confident that they can remove an employee for poor performance. Accountability is essential for all Federal employees, but it is especially important for those who are in policy-influencing positions. These personnel are entrusted to shape and implement actions that have a significant impact on all Americans. Any power they have is delegated by the President, and they must be accountable to the President, who is the only member of the executive branch, other than the Vice President, elected and directly accountable to the American people. In recent years, however, there have been numerous and well-documented cases of career Federal employees resisting and undermining the policies and directives of their executive leadership. Principles of good administration, therefore, necessitate action to restore accountability to the career civil service, beginning with positions of a confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character. Sec. 2. Reinstatement of Prior Administration Policy. Executive Order 13957 of October 21, 2020 (Creating Schedule F in the Excepted Service), is hereby immediately reinstated with full force and effect, subject to the amendments described in section 3 of this order; provided that the date of this order shall be treated as the date of Executive Order 13957. Sec. 3. Amendments to Prior Administration Policy. Executive Order 13957 is amended as follows: (a) replace the letter “F” throughout, when used to designate an excepted service schedule, with the words “Policy/Career”; (b) in section 1: (i) remove the text between the words “make necessary” in the seventh paragraph and “excepting such positions” in the eighth paragraph; and (ii) insert the text “competitive service and the” immediately before the words “adverse action procedures” in the eighth paragraph; (c) in section 4(a)(i), replace the word “Positions” with the words “Career positions” in the final paragraph; (d) in section 4(b)(i), add the text “providing for the application of Civil Service Rule 6.3(a) to Schedule Policy/Career positions and” after the words “as appropriate”; (e) in section 5: (i) insert the words “recommend that the President” immediately after the words “petition the Director to” in subsection (a)(i); (ii) insert the following text at the end of subsection (c): “(vi) directly or indirectly supervising employees in Schedule Policy/Career positions; or (vii) duties that the Director otherwise indicates may be appropriate for inclusion in Schedule Policy/Career.”; and (iii) amend subsection (d) to read “The Director shall promptly recommend to the President which positions should be placed in Schedule Policy/Career.”; (f) in section 6: (i) designate the existing text as new subsection“(a)”; (ii) insert a new subsection (b) that reads:“(b) Employees in or applicants for Schedule Policy/Career positions are not required to personally or politically support the current President or the policies of the current administration. They are required to faithfully implement administration policies to the best of their ability, consistent with their constitutional oath and the vesting of executive authority solely in the President. Failure to do so is grounds for dismissal.” Sec. 4. Conforming Regulatory Changes. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management (Director) shall promptly amend the Civil Service Regulations to rescind all changes made by the final rule of April 9, 2024, “Upholding Civil Service Protections and Merit System Principles,” 89 Fed. Reg. 24982, that impede the purposes of or would otherwise affect the implementation of Executive Order 13957. Until such rescissions are effectuated (including the resolution of any judicial review), 5 CFR part 302, subpart F, 5 CFR 210.102(b)(3), and 5 CFR 210.102(b)(4) shall be held inoperative and without effect. Sec. 5. Additional Positions for Consideration. Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Director shall, after consultation with the Executive Office of the President, issue guidance about additional categories of positions that executive departments and agencies should consider recommending for Schedule Policy/Career. Sec. 6. Revocation. Executive Order 14003 of January 22, 2021 (Protecting the Federal Workforce), is hereby revoked, and any rules, regulations, guidance, or other agency policies effectuated under Executive Order 14003 shall not be enforced. The heads of each executive department and agency shall review and identify existing agency actions relating to or arising under section 3(e)(v) and 3(f) of Executive Order 14003 (relating to suspending, revising, or rescinding revisions to discipline and unacceptable performance policies) and, as soon as practicable, suspend, revise, or rescind such actions identified in the review. Sec. 7. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. As Chief Executive and as Commander in Chief, I am committed to meritocracy and to the elimination of race-based and sex-based discrimination within the Armed Forces of the United States. No individual or group within our Armed Forces should be preferred or disadvantaged on the basis of sex, race, ethnicity, color, or creed. Unfortunately, in recent years civilian and uniformed leadership alike have implemented Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) programs and their attendant race and sex preferences within the Armed Forces. These actions undermine leadership, merit, and unit cohesion, thereby eroding lethality and force readiness. They also violate Americans’ consciences by engaging in invidious race and sex discrimination. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of my Administration that the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security with regard to the United States Coast Guard (USCG), and every element of the Armed Forces should operate free from any preference based on race or sex. Sec. 3. Definitions. (a) A “DEI office” means an office, division, job, or other unit of an institution established for the purpose of: (i) influencing hiring or employment practices at the institution with respect to race, sex, color, or ethnicity, other than through the use of color-blind and sex-neutral hiring processes; or (ii) promoting differential treatment of or providing special benefits to individuals on the basis of race, sex, color, or ethnicity. (b) The term “gender ideology” has the meaning given to that term in section 2(f) of the Executive Order of January 20, 2025, (Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government). (c) The term “divisive concepts” has the meaning given to that term in section 2(a) of Executive Order 13950 of September 22, 2020 (Combating Race and Sex Stereotyping). Sec. 4. Abolishing the DEI Bureaucracy. The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall abolish every DEI office within the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security with regard to the USCG, respectively, including any vestiges of DEI offices, such as sub-offices, programs, elements, or initiatives established to promote a race-based preferences system that subverts meritocracy, perpetuates unconstitutional discrimination, and promotes divisive concepts or gender ideology. Sec. 5. Department of Defense Internal Review. The Secretary of Defense shall conduct an internal review that documents actions taken in pursuit of DEI initiatives, including all instances of race and sex discrimination and activities designed to promote a race- or sex-based preferences system. The report shall be delivered to the Secretary of Defense within 90 days of the date of this order. Sec. 6. Protecting American Values. (a) The Department of Defense and the Armed Forces, including any educational institution operated or controlled thereby, are prohibited from promoting, advancing, or otherwise inculcating the following un-American, divisive, discriminatory, radical, extremist, and irrational theories: (i) “divisive concepts,” as defined in section 3(c) of this order, and “race or sex stereotyping,” or “race or sex scapegoating” as both terms are defined in section 2 of Executive Order 13950, as amended; (ii) that America’s founding documents are racist or sexist; and (iii) “gender ideology,” as defined in section 3(b) of this order. (b) The Department of Defense and the Armed Forces shall not hire employees, contractors, or consultants to teach the theories set forth in subsection (a) of this section. (c) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall carefully review the leadership, curriculum, and instructors of the United States Service Academies and other defense academic institutions associated with their respective Departments to ensure alignment with this order. In addition, these institutions shall be required to teach that America and its founding documents remain the most powerful force for good in human history. Sec. 7. Implementation. (a) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall issue detailed guidance for the implementation of this order to their respective departments within 30 days of the date of this order. (b) Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a report through the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy documenting the progress of their respective Departments in implementing this order, and any recommendations for action to fulfill the objectives of this order. Sec. 8. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. Sec. 9. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 27, 2025. 
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Purpose. The First Amendment to the United States Constitution, an amendment essential to the success of our Republic, enshrines the right of the American people to speak freely in the public square without Government interference. Over the last 4 years, the previous administration trampled free speech rights by censoring Americans’ speech on online platforms, often by exerting substantial coercive pressure on third parties, such as social media companies, to moderate, deplatform, or otherwise suppress speech that the Federal Government did not approve. Under the guise of combatting “misinformation,” “disinformation,” and “malinformation,” the Federal Government infringed on the constitutionally protected speech rights of American citizens across the United States in a manner that advanced the Government’s preferred narrative about significant matters of public debate. Government censorship of speech is intolerable in a free society. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to: (a) secure the right of the American people to engage in constitutionally protected speech; (b) ensure that no Federal Government officer, employee, or agent engages in or facilitates any conduct that would unconstitutionally abridge the free speech of any American citizen; (c) ensure that no taxpayer resources are used to engage in or facilitate any conduct that would unconstitutionally abridge the free speech of any American citizen; and (d) identify and take appropriate action to correct past misconduct by the Federal Government related to censorship of protected speech. Sec. 3. Ending Censorship of Protected Speech. (a) No Federal department, agency, entity, officer, employee, or agent may act or use any Federal resources in a manner contrary to section 2 of this order. (b) The Attorney General, in consultation with the heads of executive departments and agencies, shall investigate the activities of the Federal Government over the last 4 years that are inconsistent with the purposes and policies of this order and prepare a report to be submitted to the President, through the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, with recommendations for appropriate remedial actions to be taken based on the findings of the report. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose and Policy. It is in the national interest to promote the extraordinary heritage of our Nation and ensure future generations of American citizens celebrate the legacy of our American heroes. The naming of our national treasures, including breathtaking natural wonders and historic works of art, should honor the contributions of visionary and patriotic Americans in our Nation’s rich past. Sec. 2. Appointments to the U.S. Board on Geographic Names. (a) Within seven days of the date of this order, each agency head with authority to appoint members to the Board on Geographic Names (Board) pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 364a, shall review their respective appointees and consider replacing those appointees in accordance with applicable law. (b) The Secretary of the Interior shall review and consider additional appointments to the Board to assist in fulfilling all aspects of this order, subject to all applicable laws. (c) With respect to all applications for naming and renaming submitted to the newly constituted Board, the Board shall advance the policy established in section 1 of this order to honor the contributions of visionary and patriotic Americans and may update its principles, policies, and procedures as needed to achieve this policy. (d) Where Congressional action is required to establish a renaming in public law, following Board approval on renaming, the Board shall provide guidance to all relevant Federal agencies to use the Board-approved name in the interim in federal documents and achieve consistency across the federal government. Sec. 3. Renaming of Mount McKinley. (a) President William McKinley, the 25th President of the United States, heroically led our Nation to victory in the Spanish-American War. Under his leadership, the United States enjoyed rapid economic growth and prosperity, including an expansion of territorial gains for the Nation. President McKinley championed tariffs to protect U.S. manufacturing, boost domestic production, and drive U.S. industrialization and global reach to new heights. He was tragically assassinated in an attack on our Nation’s values and our success, and he should be honored for his steadfast commitment to American greatness. In 1917, the country officially honored President McKinley through the naming of North America’s highest peak. Yet after nearly a century, President Obama’s administration, in 2015, stripped the McKinley name from federal nomenclature, an affront to President McKinley’s life, his achievements, and his sacrifice. This order honors President McKinley for giving his life for our great Nation and dutifully recognizes his historic legacy of protecting America’s interests and generating enormous wealth for all Americans. (b) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of the Interior shall, consistent with 43 U.S.C. 364 through 364f, reinstate the name “Mount McKinley.” The Secretary shall subsequently update the Geographic Names Information System (GNIS) to reflect the renaming and reinstatement of Mount McKinley. The national park area surrounding Mount McKinley shall retain the name Denali National Park and Preserve. (c) The Secretary of the Interior shall work with Alaska Native entities and state and local organizations to adopt names for landmarks to honor the history and culture of the Alaskan people. Sec. 4. Gulf of America. (a) The area formerly known as the Gulf of Mexico has long been an integral asset to our once burgeoning Nation and has remained an indelible part of America. The Gulf was a crucial artery for America’s early trade and global commerce. It is the largest gulf in the world, and the United States coastline along this remarkable body of water spans over 1,700 miles and contains nearly 160 million acres. Its natural resources and wildlife remain central to America’s economy today. The bountiful geology of this basin has made it one of the most prodigious oil and gas regions in the world, providing roughly 14% of our Nation’s crude-oil production and an abundance of natural gas, and consistently driving new and innovative technologies that have allowed us to tap into some of the deepest and richest oil reservoirs in the world. The Gulf is also home to vibrant American fisheries teeming with snapper, shrimp, grouper, stone crab, and other species, and it is recognized as one of the most productive fisheries in the world, with the second largest volume of commercial fishing landings by region in the Nation, contributing millions of dollars to local American economies. The Gulf is also a favorite destination for American tourism and recreation activities. Further, the Gulf is a vital region for the multi-billion-dollar U.S. maritime industry, providing some of the largest and most impressive ports in the world. The Gulf will continue to play a pivotal role in shaping America’s future and the global economy, and in recognition of this flourishing economic resource and its critical importance to our Nation’s economy and its people, I am directing that it officially be renamed the Gulf of America. (b) As such, within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of the Interior shall, consistent with 43 U.S.C. 364 through 364f, take all appropriate actions to rename as the “Gulf of America” the U.S. Continental Shelf area bounded on the northeast, north, and northwest by the States of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida and extending to the seaward boundary with Mexico and Cuba in the area formerly named as the Gulf of Mexico. The Secretary shall subsequently update the GNIS to reflect the renaming of the Gulf and remove all references to the Gulf of Mexico from the GNIS, consistent with applicable law. The Board shall provide guidance to ensure all federal references to the Gulf of America, including on agency maps, contracts, and other documents and communications shall reflect its renaming. Sec. 5. Additional Action. The Secretary of Interior may solicit public and intergovernmental input regarding additional patriots to honor, particularly in light of America’s semiquincentennial celebration, and shall recommend action to me, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. Capital punishment is an essential tool for deterring and punishing those who would commit the most heinous crimes and acts of lethal violence against American citizens. Before, during, and after the founding of the United States, our cities, States, and country have continuously relied upon capital punishment as the ultimate deterrent and only proper punishment for the vilest crimes. Our Founders knew well that only capital punishment can bring justice and restore order in response to such evil. For this and other reasons, capital punishment continues to enjoy broad popular support. Yet for too long, politicians and judges who oppose capital punishment have defied and subverted the laws of our country. At every turn, they seek to thwart the execution of lawfully imposed capital sentences and choose to enforce their personal beliefs rather than the law. When President Biden took office in 2021, he allowed his Department of Justice to issue a moratorium on Federal executions, in defiance of his duty to faithfully execute the laws of the United States that provide for capital punishment. And on December 23, 2024, President Biden commuted the sentences of 37 of the 40 most vile and sadistic rapists, child molesters, and murderers on Federal death row: remorseless criminals who brutalized young children, strangled and drowned their victims, and hunted strangers for sport. He commuted their sentences even though the laws of our Nation have always protected victims by applying capital punishment to barbaric acts like theirs. Judges who oppose capital punishment have likewise disregarded the law by falsely claiming that capital punishment is unconstitutional, even though the Constitution explicitly acknowledges the legality of capital punishment. These efforts to subvert and undermine capital punishment defy the laws of our nation, make a mockery of justice, and insult the victims of these horrible crimes. The Government’s most solemn responsibility is to protect its citizens from abhorrent acts, and my Administration will not tolerate efforts to stymie and eviscerate the laws that authorize capital punishment against those who commit horrible acts of violence against American citizens. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to ensure that the laws that authorize capital punishment are respected and faithfully implemented, and to counteract the politicians and judges who subvert the law by obstructing and preventing the execution of capital sentences. Sec. 3. Federal Capital Punishment. (a) The Attorney General shall pursue the death penalty for all crimes of a severity demanding its use. (b) In addition to pursuing the death penalty where possible, the Attorney General shall, where consistent with applicable law, pursue Federal jurisdiction and seek the death penalty regardless of other factors for every federal capital crime involving: (i) The murder of a law-enforcement officer; or (ii) A capital crime committed by an alien illegally present in this country. The Attorney General shall encourage State attorneys general and district attorneys to bring State capital charges for all capital crimes with special attention to the crimes described in Subsections (i) and (ii), regardless of whether the federal trial results in a capital sentence. (d) The Attorney General shall take all appropriate action to modify the Justice Manual based on the policy and purpose set forth in this Executive Order. (e) The Attorney General shall evaluate the places of imprisonment and conditions of confinement for each of the 37 murderers whose Federal death sentences were commuted by President Biden, and the Attorney General shall take all lawful and appropriate action to ensure that these offenders are imprisoned in conditions consistent with the monstrosity of their crimes and the threats they pose. The Attorney General shall further evaluate whether these offenders can be charged with State capital crimes and shall recommend appropriate action to state and local authorities. Sec. 4. Preserving Capital Punishment in the States. (a) The Attorney General shall take all necessary and lawful action to ensure that each state that allows capital punishment has a sufficient supply of drugs needed to carry out lethal injection. (b) The Attorney General shall take all appropriate action to approve or deny any pending request for certification made by any State under 28 U.S.C. 2265. Sec. 5. Seeking The Overruling of Supreme Court Precedents That Hinder Capital Punishment. The Attorney General shall take all appropriate action to seek the overruling of Supreme Court precedents that limit the authority of State and Federal governments to impose capital punishment. Sec. 6. Prosecuting Crime to Protect Communities. (a) The Attorney General shall appropriately prioritize public safety and the prosecution of violent crime, and take all appropriate action necessary to dismantle transnational criminal activity in the United States. (b) To ensure the fullest protection of American communities from violence, the Attorney General shall encourage state attorneys general and district attorneys to adopt policies and practices aligned with subsection (a). Federal law enforcement should coordinate with State and local law enforcement where possible to facilitate these objectives. Sec. 7. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
Heads of all departments and agencies in the executive branch of Government shall, as soon as practicable, take all necessary steps to terminate remote work arrangements and require employees to return to work in-person at their respective duty stations on a full-time basis, provided that the department and agency heads shall make exemptions they deem necessary. This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq., and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. Over the last 4 years, the United States has endured a large-scale invasion at an unprecedented level. Millions of illegal aliens from nations and regions all around the world successfully entered the United States where they are now residing, including potential terrorists, foreign spies, members of cartels, gangs, and violent transnational criminal organizations, and other hostile actors with malicious intent. Deadly narcotics and other illicit materials have flowed across the border while agents and officers spend their limited resources processing illegal aliens for release into the United States. These catch-and-release policies undermine the rule of law and our sovereignty, create substantial risks to public safety and security, and divert critical resources away from stopping the entry of contraband and fugitives into the United States. We have limited information on the precise whereabouts of a great number of these illegal aliens who have entered the United States over the last 4 years. This cannot stand. A nation without borders is not a nation, and the Federal Government must act with urgency and strength to end the threats posed by an unsecured border. One of my most important obligations is to protect the American people from the disastrous effects of unlawful mass migration and resettlement. My Administration will marshal all available resources and authorities to stop this unprecedented flood of illegal aliens into the United States. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to take all appropriate action to secure the borders of our Nation through the following means: (a) Establishing a physical wall and other barriers monitored and supported by adequate personnel and technology; (b) Deterring and preventing the entry of illegal aliens into the United States; (c) Detaining, to the maximum extent authorized by law, aliens apprehended on suspicion of violating Federal or State law, until such time as they are removed from the United States; (d) Removing promptly all aliens who enter or remain in violation of Federal law; (e) Pursuing criminal charges against illegal aliens who violate the immigration laws, and against those who facilitate their unlawful presence in the United States; (f) Cooperating fully with State and local law enforcement officials in enacting Federal-State partnerships to enforce Federal immigration priorities; and (g) Obtaining complete operational control of the borders of the United States. Sec. 3. Physical Barriers. The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action to deploy and construct temporary and permanent physical barriers to ensure complete operational control of the southern border of the United States. Sec. 4. Deployment of Personnel. (a) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate and lawful action to deploy sufficient personnel along the southern border of the United States to ensure complete operational control; and (b) The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action to supplement available personnel to secure the southern border and enforce the immigration laws of the United States through the use of sections 1103(a)(2) and (4)-(6) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1103(a)(2) and (4)-(6)). Sec. 5. Detention. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate actions to detain, to the fullest extent permitted by law, aliens apprehended for violations of immigration law until their successful removal from the United States. The Secretary shall, consistent with applicable law, issue new policy guidance or propose regulations regarding the appropriate and consistent use of lawful detention authority under the INA, including the termination of the practice commonly known as “catch-and-release,” whereby illegal aliens are routinely released into the United States shortly after their apprehension for violations of immigration law. Sec. 6. Resumption of Migrant Protection Protocols. As soon as practicable, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, shall take all appropriate action to resume the Migrant Protection Protocols in all sectors along the southern border of the United States and ensure that, pending removal proceedings, aliens described in section 235(b)(2)(C) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1225(b)(2)(C)) are returned to the territory from which they came. Sec. 7. Adjusting Parole Policies. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall, consistent with applicable law, take all appropriate action to: (a) Cease using the “CBP One” application as a method of paroling or facilitating the entry of otherwise inadmissible aliens into the United States; (b) Terminate all categorical parole programs that are contrary to the policies of the United States established in my Executive Orders, including the program known as the “Processes for Cubans, Haitians, Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans.” (c) Align all policies and operations at the southern border of the United States to be consistent with the policy of Section 2 of this order and ensure that all future parole determinations fully comply with this order and with applicable law. Sec. 8. Additional International Cooperation. The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall take all appropriate action to facilitate additional international cooperation and agreements, consistent with the policy of Section 2, including entering into agreements based upon the provisions of section 208(a)(2)(A) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1158(a)(2)(A)) or any other applicable provision of law. Sec. 9. DNA and Identification Requirements. (a) The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action to fulfill the requirements of the DNA Fingerprint Act of 2005, title X of Public Law 109-162, for all aliens detained under the authority of the United States; and (b) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action to use any available technologies and procedures to determine the validity of any claimed familial relationship between aliens encountered or apprehended by the Department of Homeland Security. Sec. 10. Prosecution of Offenses. The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action to prioritize the prosecution of offenses that relate to the borders of the United States, including the investigation and prosecution of offenses that involve human smuggling, human trafficking, child trafficking, and sex trafficking in the United States. Sec. 11. Additional Measures. Within 14 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide recommendations to the President regarding the use of any other authority to protect the United States from foreign threats and secure the southern border. Sec. 12. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
“Today, President Donald J. Trump and his Special Envoy Steve Witkoff are able to announce that Mr. Witkoff is leaving Russian airspace with Marc Fogel, an American who was detained by Russia. President Trump, Steve Witkoff and the President’s advisors negotiated an exchange that serves as a show of good faith from the Russians and a sign we are moving in the right direction to end the brutal and terrible war in Ukraine. Since President Trump’s swearing-in, he has successfully secured the release of Americans detained around the world, and President Trump will continue until all Americans being held are returned to the United States. By tonight, Marc Fogel will be on American soil and reunited with his family and loved ones thanks to President Trump’s leadership.” – National Security Advisor Mike Waltz 
“Today’s jobs report reveals the Biden economy was far worse than anyone thought, and underscores the necessity of President Trump’s pro-growth policies. During his first weeks in office, President Trump declared a national energy emergency to Make America Energy Dominant Again, pledged to cut 10 regulations for every new regulatory action, and outlined a plan to deliver the largest tax cut in history for hardworking Americans. President Trump is delivering on his promise to restore our broken economy, revive small business optimism, create jobs, and ignite a new Golden Age for America.” – Karoline Leavitt 
“The Government of Colombia has agreed to all of President Trump’s terms, including the unrestricted acceptance of all illegal aliens from Colombia returned from the United States, including on U.S. military aircraft, without limitation or delay. Based on this agreement, the fully drafted IEEPA tariffs and sanctions will be held in reserve, and not signed, unless Colombia fails to honor this agreement. The visa sanctions issued by the State Department, and enhanced inspections from Customs and Border Protection, will remain in effect until the first planeload of Colombian deportees is successfully returned. Today’s events make clear to the world that America is respected again. President Trump will continue to fiercely protect our nation’s sovereignty, and he expects all other nations of the world to fully cooperate in accepting the deportation of their citizens illegally present in the United States.” 
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENTOFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETWASHINGTON, D.C. 20503January 23, 2025(House) STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY H.R. 21 – Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act(Rep. Ann Wagner, R-MO-2, and 151 cosponsors) The Administration strongly supports H.R. 21 the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, and applauds the House for its efforts to protect the most vulnerable and prevent infanticide. Current law fails to provide adequate protections, including adequate requirements for the provision of medical care, for vulnerable newborns who survive an abortion attempt. If enacted, H.R. 21 would require any healthcare practitioner who is present at the time that such a child is born to exercise care to preserve the child’s life and health, and to ensure the child is immediately transported and admitted to a hospital. The bill would also require a healthcare practitioner, or hospital employee, to immediately report a violation of these requirements. H.R. 21 would establish a civil right of action for, and prevent criminal prosecution and penalties from being brought against, the mothers of such children. As President Trump established through Executive Order 13952 of September 25, 2020, it is the policy of the United States to recognize the human dignity and inherent worth of every newborn or other infant child, regardless of prematurity or disability, and to ensure for each child due protection under the law. A baby that survives an abortion and is born alive into this world should be treated just like any other baby born alive. H.R. 21 would properly amend current law to ensure that the life of one baby is not treated as being more or less valuable than another. If H.R. 21 were presented to the President in its current form, his advisors would recommend he sign it into law.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to promote United States leadership in digital assets and financial technology while protecting economic liberty, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Purpose and Policies. (a) The digital asset industry plays a crucial role in innovation and economic development in the United States, as well as our Nation’s international leadership. It is therefore the policy of my Administration to support the responsible growth and use of digital assets, blockchain technology, and related technologies across all sectors of the economy, including by: (i) protecting and promoting the ability of individual citizens and private-sector entities alike to access and use for lawful purposes open public blockchain networks without persecution, including the ability to develop and deploy software, to participate in mining and validating, to transact with other persons without unlawful censorship, and to maintain self-custody of digital assets; (ii) promoting and protecting the sovereignty of the United States dollar, including through actions to promote the development and growth of lawful and legitimate dollar-backed stablecoins worldwide; (iii) protecting and promoting fair and open access to banking services for all law-abiding individual citizens and private-sector entities alike; (iv) providing regulatory clarity and certainty built on technology-neutral regulations, frameworks that account for emerging technologies, transparent decision making, and well-defined jurisdictional regulatory boundaries, all of which are essential to supporting a vibrant and inclusive digital economy and innovation in digital assets, permissionless blockchains, and distributed ledger technologies; and (v) taking measures to protect Americans from the risks of Central Bank Digital Currencies (CBDCs), which threaten the stability of the financial system, individual privacy, and the sovereignty of the United States, including by prohibiting the establishment, issuance, circulation, and use of a CBDC within the jurisdiction of the United States. Sec. 2. Definitions. (a) For the purpose of this order, the term “digital asset” refers to any digital representation of value that is recorded on a distributed ledger, including cryptocurrencies, digital tokens, and stablecoins. (b) The term “blockchain” means any technology where data is: (i) shared across a network to create a public ledger of verified transactions or information among network participants; (ii) linked using cryptography to maintain the integrity of the public ledger and to execute other functions; (iii) distributed among network participants in an automated fashion to concurrently update network participants on the state of the public ledger and any other functions; and (iv) composed of source code that is publicly available. (c) “Central Bank Digital Currency” means a form of digital money or monetary value, denominated in the national unit of account, that is a direct liability of the central bank. Sec. 3. Revocation of Executive Order 14067 and Department of the Treasury Framework of July 7, 2022. (a) Executive Order 14067 of March 9, 2022 (Ensuring Responsible Development of Digital Assets) is hereby revoked. (b) The Secretary of the Treasury is directed to immediately revoke the Department of the Treasury’s “Framework for International Engagement on Digital Assets,” issued on July 7, 2022. (c) All policies, directives, and guidance issued pursuant to Executive Order 14067 and the Department of the Treasury’s Framework for International Engagement on Digital Assets are hereby rescinded or shall be rescinded by the Secretary of the Treasury, as appropriate, to the extent they are inconsistent with the provisions of this order. (d) The Secretary of the Treasury shall take all appropriate measures to ensure compliance with the policies set forth in this order. Sec. 4. Establishment of the President‘s Working Group on Digital Asset Markets. (a) There is hereby established within the National Economic Council the President’s Working Group on Digital Asset Markets (Working Group). The Working Group shall be chaired by the Special Advisor for AI and Crypto (Chair). In addition to the Chair, the Working Group shall include the following officials, or their designees: (i) the Secretary of the Treasury; (ii) the Attorney General; (iii) the Secretary of Commerce; (iv) the Secretary of Homeland Security; (v) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget; (vi) the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs; (vii) the Assistant to the President for National Economic Policy (APEP); (viii) the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology; (ix) the Homeland Security Advisor; (x) the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and (xi) the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. (xii) As appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the Chair may invite the heads of other executive departments and agencies (agencies), or other senior officials within the Executive Office of the President, to attend meetings of the Working Group, based on the relevance of their expertise and responsibilities. (b) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other relevant agencies, the heads of which are included in the Working Group, shall identify all regulations, guidance documents, orders, or other items that affect the digital asset sector. Within 60 days of the date of this order, each agency shall submit to the Chair recommendations with respect to whether each identified regulation, guidance document, order, or other item should be rescinded or modified, or, for items other than regulations, adopted in a regulation. (c) Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Working Group shall submit a report to the President, through the APEP, which shall recommend regulatory and legislative proposals that advance the policies established in this order. In particular, the report shall focus on the following: (i) The Working Group shall propose a Federal regulatory framework governing the issuance and operation of digital assets, including stablecoins, in the United States. The Working Group’s report shall consider provisions for market structure, oversight, consumer protection, and risk management. (ii) The Working Group shall evaluate the potential creation and maintenance of a national digital asset stockpile and propose criteria for establishing such a stockpile, potentially derived from cryptocurrencies lawfully seized by the Federal Government through its law enforcement efforts. (d) The Chair shall designate an Executive Director of the Working Group, who shall be responsible for coordinating its day-to-day functions. On issues affecting the national security, the Working Group shall consult with the National Security Council. (e) As appropriate and consistent with law, the Working Group shall hold public hearings and receive individual expertise from leaders in digital assets and digital markets. Sec. 5. Prohibition of Central Bank Digital Currencies. (a) Except to the extent required by law, agencies are hereby prohibited from undertaking any action to establish, issue, or promote CBDCs within the jurisdiction of the United States or abroad. (b) Except to the extent required by law, any ongoing plans or initiatives at any agency related to the creation of a CBDC within the jurisdiction of the United States shall be immediately terminated, and no further actions may be taken to develop or implement such plans or initiatives. Sec. 6. Severability. (a) If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. Sec. 7. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 23, 2025.
January 20, 2025 MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE THE SECRETARY OF ENERGY THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY SUBJECT: Temporary Withdrawal of All Areas on the Outer Continental Shelf from Offshore Wind Leasing and Review of the Federal Government’s Leasing and Permitting Practices for Wind Projects Section 1. Temporary Withdrawal of Areas. Consistent with the principles of responsible public stewardship that are entrusted to this office, with due consideration for a variety of relevant factors, including the need to foster an energy economy capable of meeting the country’s growing demand for reliable energy, the importance of marine life, impacts on ocean currents and wind patterns, effects on energy costs for Americans –- especially those who can least afford it –- and to ensure that the United States is able to maintain a robust fishing industry for future generations and provide low cost energy to its citizens, I hereby direct as follows: Under the authority granted to me in section 12(a) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, 43 U.S.C. 1341(a), I hereby withdraw from disposition for wind energy leasing all areas within the Offshore Continental Shelf (OCS) as defined in section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, 43 U.S.C. 1331. This withdrawal shall go into effect beginning on January 21, 2025, and shall remain in effect until this Presidential Memorandum is revoked. To the extent that an area is already withdrawn from disposition for wind energy leasing, the area’s withdrawal is extended for a time period beginning on January 21, 2025, until this Presidential Memorandum is revoked. This withdrawal temporarily prevents consideration of any area in the OCS for any new or renewed wind energy leasing for the purposes of generation of electricity or any other such use derived from the use of wind. This withdrawal does not apply to leasing related to any other purposes such as, but not limited to, oil, gas, minerals, and environmental conservation. Nothing in this withdrawal affects rights under existing leases in the withdrawn areas. With respect to such existing leases, the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Attorney General as needed, shall conduct a comprehensive review of the ecological, economic, and environmental necessity of terminating or amending any existing wind energy leases, identifying any legal bases for such removal, and submit a report with recommendations to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy. Sec. 2. Temporary Cessation and Immediate Review of Federal Wind Leasing and Permitting Practices. (a) In light of various alleged legal deficiencies underlying the Federal Government’s leasing and permitting of onshore and offshore wind projects, the consequences of which may lead to grave harm — including negative impacts on navigational safety interests, transportation interests, national security interests, commercial interests, and marine mammals — and in light of potential inadequacies in various environmental reviews required by the National Environmental Policy Act to lease or permit wind projects, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Energy, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and the heads of all other relevant agencies, shall not issue new or renewed approvals, rights of way, permits, leases, or loans for onshore or offshore wind projects pending the completion of a comprehensive assessment and review of Federal wind leasing and permitting practices. The Secretary of the Interior shall lead that assessment and review in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Secretary of Energy, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. The assessment shall consider the environmental impact of onshore and offshore wind projects upon wildlife, including, but not limited to, birds and marine mammals. The assessment shall also consider the economic costs associated with the intermittent generation of electricity and the effect of subsidies on the viability of the wind industry. (b) In light of criticism that the Record of Decision (ROD) issued by the Bureau of Land Management on December 5, 2024, with respect to the Lava Ridge Wind Project Final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), as approved by the Department of the Interior, is allegedly contrary to the public interest and suffers from legal deficiencies, the Secretary of the Interior shall, as appropriate, place a temporary moratorium on all activities and rights of Magic Valley Energy, LLC, or any other party under the ROD, including, but not limited to, any rights-of-way or rights of development or operation of any projects contemplated in the ROD. The Secretary of the Interior shall review the ROD and, as appropriate, conduct a new, comprehensive analysis of the various interests implicated by the Lava Ridge Wind Project and the potential environmental impacts. (c) The Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Energy, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall assess the environmental impact and cost to surrounding communities of defunct and idle windmills and deliver a report to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, with their findings and recommended authorities to require the removal of such windmills. (d) The Attorney General may, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, provide notice of this order to any court with jurisdiction over pending litigation related to any aspect of the Federal leasing or permitting of onshore or offshore wind projects or the Lava Ridge Wind Project, and may, in the Attorney General’s discretion, request that the court stay the litigation or otherwise delay further litigation, or seek other appropriate relief consistent with this order, pending the completion of the actions described in subsection (a) or subsection (b) of this section, as applicable. This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register. 

U.S. CapitolWashington, D.C.12:10 P.M. EST THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. (Applause.) Wow. Thank you very, very much.Vice President Vance, Speaker Johnson, Senator Thune, Chief Justice Roberts, justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, President Clinton, President Bush, President Obama, President Biden, Vice President Harris, and my fellow citizens, the golden age of America begins right now. (Applause.) From this day forward, our country will flourish and be respected again all over the world. We will be the envy of every nation, and we will not allow ourselves to be taken advantage of any longer. During every single day of the Trump administration, I will, very simply, put America first. (Applause.) Our sovereignty will be reclaimed. Our safety will be restored. The scales of justice will be rebalanced. The vicious, violent, and unfair weaponization of the Justice Department and our government will end. (Applause.) And our top priority will be to create a nation that is proud, prosperous, and free. (Applause.)America will soon be greater, stronger, and far more exceptional than ever before. (Applause.) I return to the presidency confident and optimistic that we are at the start of a thrilling new era of national success. A tide of change is sweeping the country, sunlight is pouring over the entire world, and America has the chance to seize this opportunity like never before. But first, we must be honest about the challenges we face. While they are plentiful, they will be annihilated by this great momentum that the world is now witnessing in the United States of America. As we gather today, our government confronts a crisis of trust. For many years, a radical and corrupt establishment has extracted power and wealth from our citizens while the pillars of our society lay broken and seemingly in complete disrepair. We now have a government that cannot manage even a simple crisis at home while, at the same time, stumbling into a continuing catalogue of catastrophic events abroad. It fails to protect our magnificent, law-abiding American citizens but provides sanctuary and protection for dangerous criminals, many from prisons and mental institutions, that have illegally entered our country from all over the world. We have a government that has given unlimited funding to the defense of foreign borders but refuses to defend American borders or, more importantly, its own people. Our country can no longer deliver basic services in times of emergency, as recently shown by the wonderful people of North Carolina — who have been treated so badly — (applause) — and other states who are still suffering from a hurricane that took place many months ago or, more recently, Los Angeles, where we are watching fires still tragically burn from weeks ago without even a token of defense. They’re raging through the houses and communities, even affecting some of the wealthiest and most powerful individuals in our country — some of whom are sitting here right now. They don’t have a home any longer. That’s interesting. But we can’t let this happen. Everyone is unable to do anything about it. That’s going to change. We have a public health system that does not deliver in times of disaster, yet more money is spent on it than any country anywhere in the world. And we have an education system that teaches our children to be ashamed of themselves — in many cases, to hate our country despite the love that we try so desperately to provide to them. All of this will change starting today, and it will change very quickly. (Applause.) My recent election is a mandate to completely and totally reverse a horrible betrayal and all of these many betrayals that have taken place and to give the people back their faith, their wealth, their democracy, and, indeed, their freedom. From this moment on, America’s decline is over. (Applause.) Our liberties and our nation’s glorious destiny will no longer be denied. And we will immediately restore the integrity, competency, and loyalty of America’s government. Over the past eight years, I have been tested and challenged more than any president in our 250-year history, and I’ve learned a lot along the way. The journey to reclaim our republic has not been an easy one — that, I can tell you. Those who wish to stop our cause have tried to take my freedom and, indeed, to take my life. Just a few months ago, in a beautiful Pennsylvania field, an assassin’s bullet ripped through my ear. But I felt then and believe even more so now that my life was saved for a reason. I was saved by God to make America great again. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.)Thank you very much. (Applause.) That is why each day under our administration of American patriots, we will be working to meet every crisis with dignity and power and strength. We will move with purpose and speed to bring back hope, prosperity, safety, and peace for citizens of every race, religion, color, and creed. For American citizens, January 20th, 2025, is Liberation Day. (Applause.) It is my hope that our recent presidential election will be remembered as the greatest and most consequential election in the history of our country. As our victory showed, the entire nation is rapidly unifying behind our agenda with dramatic increases in support from virtually every element of our society: young and old, men and women, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans, urban, suburban, rural. And very importantly, we had a powerful win in all seven swing states — (applause) — and the popular vote, we won by millions of people. (Applause.) To the Black and Hispanic communities, I want to thank you for the tremendous outpouring of love and trust that you have shown me with your vote. We set records, and I will not forget it. I’ve heard your voices in the campaign, and I look forward to working with you in the years to come. Today is Martin Luther King Day. And his honor — this will be a great honor. But in his honor, we will strive together to make his dream a reality. We will make his dream come true. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.) National unity is now returning to America, and confidence and pride is soaring like never before. In everything we do, my administration will be inspired by a strong pursuit of excellence and unrelenting success. We will not forget our country, we will not forget our Constitution, and we will not forget our God. Can’t do that. (Applause.) Today, I will sign a series of historic executive orders. With these actions, we will begin the complete restoration of America and the revolution of common sense. It’s all about common sense. (Applause.) First, I will declare a national emergency at our southern border. (Applause.) All illegal entry will immediately be halted, and we will begin the process of returning millions and millions of criminal aliens back to the places from which they came. We will reinstate my Remain in Mexico policy. (Applause.) I will end the practice of catch and release. (Applause.) And I will send troops to the southern border to repel the disastrous invasion of our country. (Applause.) Under the orders I sign today, we will also be designating the cartels as foreign terrorist organizations. (Applause.) And by invoking the Alien Enemies Act of 1798, I will direct our government to use the full and immense power of federal and state law enforcement to eliminate the presence of all foreign gangs and criminal networks bringing devastating crime to U.S. soil, including our cities and inner cities. (Applause.) As commander in chief, I have no higher responsibility than to defend our country from threats and invasions, and that is exactly what I am going to do. We will do it at a level that nobody has ever seen before. Next, I will direct all members of my cabinet to marshal the vast powers at their disposal to defeat what was record inflation and rapidly bring down costs and prices. (Applause.) The inflation crisis was caused by massive overspending and escalating energy prices, and that is why today I will also declare a national energy emergency. We will drill, baby, drill. (Applause.) America will be a manufacturing nation once again, and we have something that no other manufacturing nation will ever have — the largest amount of oil and gas of any country on earth — and we are going to use it. We’ll use it. (Applause.) We will bring prices down, fill our strategic reserves up again right to the top, and export American energy all over the world. (Applause.) We will be a rich nation again, and it is that liquid gold under our feet that will help to do it. With my actions today, we will end the Green New Deal, and we will revoke the electric vehicle mandate, saving our auto industry and keeping my sacred pledge to our great American autoworkers. (Applause.) In other words, you’ll be able to buy the car of your choice. We will build automobiles in America again at a rate that nobody could have dreamt possible just a few years ago. And thank you to the autoworkers of our nation for your inspiring vote of confidence. We did tremendously with their vote. (Applause.) I will immediately begin the overhaul of our trade system to protect American workers and families. Instead of taxing our citizens to enrich other countries, we will tariff and tax foreign countries to enrich our citizens. (Applause.) For this purpose, we are establishing the External Revenue Service to collect all tariffs, duties, and revenues. It will be massive amounts of money pouring into our Treasury, coming from foreign sources. The American dream will soon be back and thriving like never before. To restore competence and effectiveness to our federal government, my administration will establish the brand-new Department of Government Efficiency. (Applause.) After years and years of illegal and unconstitutional federal efforts to restrict free expression, I also will sign an executive order to immediately stop all government censorship and bring back free speech to America. (Applause.) Never again will the immense power of the state be weaponized to persecute political opponents — something I know something about. (Laughter.) We will not allow that to happen. It will not happen again. Under my leadership, we will restore fair, equal, and impartial justice under the constitutional rule of law. (Applause.) And we are going to bring law and order back to our cities. (Applause.) This week, I will also end the government policy of trying to socially engineer race and gender into every aspect of public and private life. (Applause.) We will forge a society that is colorblind and merit-based. (Applause.) As of today, it will henceforth be the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders: male and female. (Applause.) This week, I will reinstate any service members who were unjustly expelled from our military for objecting to the COVID vaccine mandate with full back pay. (Applause.) And I will sign an order to stop our warriors from being subjected to radical political theories and social experiments while on duty. It’s going to end immediately. (Applause.) Our armed forces will be freed to focus on their sole mission: defeating America’s enemies. (Applause.) Like in 2017, we will again build the strongest military the world has ever seen. We will measure our success not only by the battles we win but also by the wars that we end — and perhaps most importantly, the wars we never get into. (Applause.) My proudest legacy will be that of a peacemaker and unifier. That’s what I want to be: a peacemaker and a unifier. I’m pleased to say that as of yesterday, one day before I assumed office, the hostages in the Middle East are coming back home to their families. (Applause.) Thank you. America will reclaim its rightful place as the greatest, most powerful, most respected nation on earth, inspiring the awe and admiration of the entire world. A short time from now, we are going to be changing the name of the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America — (applause) — and we will restore the name of a great president, William McKinley, to Mount McKinley, where it should be and where it belongs. (Applause.) President McKinley made our country very rich through tariffs and through talent — he was a natural businessman — and gave Teddy Roosevelt the money for many of the great things he did, including the Panama Canal, which has foolishly been given to the country of Panama after the United Spates — the United States — I mean, think of this — spent more money than ever spent on a project before and lost 38,000 lives in the building of the Panama Canal. We have been treated very badly from this foolish gift that should have never been made, and Panama’s promise to us has been broken. The purpose of our deal and the spirit of our treaty has been totally violated. American ships are being severely overcharged and not treated fairly in any way, shape, or form. And that includes the United States Navy. And above all, China is operating the Panama Canal. And we didn’t give it to China. We gave it to Panama, and we’re taking it back. (Applause.) Above all, my message to Americans today is that it is time for us to once again act with courage, vigor, and the vitality of history’s greatest civilization. So, as we liberate our nation, we will lead it to new heights of victory and success. We will not be deterred. Together, we will end the chronic disease epidemic and keep our children safe, healthy, and disease-free. The United States will once again consider itself a growing nation — one that increases our wealth, expands our territory, builds our cities, raises our expectations, and carries our flag into new and beautiful horizons. And we will pursue our manifest destiny into the stars, launching American astronauts to plant the Stars and Stripes on the planet Mars. (Applause.) Ambition is the lifeblood of a great nation, and, right now, our nation is more ambitious than any other. There’s no nation like our nation. Americans are explorers, builders, innovators, entrepreneurs, and pioneers. The spirit of the frontier is written into our hearts. The call of the next great adventure resounds from within our souls. Our American ancestors turned a small group of colonies on the edge of a vast continent into a mighty republic of the most extraordinary citizens on Earth. No one comes close. Americans pushed thousands of miles through a rugged land of untamed wilderness. They crossed deserts, scaled mountains, braved untold dangers, won the Wild West, ended slavery, rescued millions from tyranny, lifted billions from poverty, harnessed electricity, split the atom, launched mankind into the heavens, and put the universe of human knowledge into the palm of the human hand. If we work together, there is nothing we cannot do and no dream we cannot achieve. Many people thought it was impossible for me to stage such a historic political comeback. But as you see today, here I am. The American people have spoken. (Applause.) I stand before you now as proof that you should never believe that something is impossible to do. In America, the impossible is what we do best. (Applause.) From New York to Los Angeles, from Philadelphia to Phoenix, from Chicago to Miami, from Houston to right here in Washington, D.C., our country was forged and built by the generations of patriots who gave everything they had for our rights and for our freedom. They were farmers and soldiers, cowboys and factory workers, steelworkers and coal miners, police officers and pioneers who pushed onward, marched forward, and let no obstacle defeat their spirit or their pride. Together, they laid down the railroads, raised up the skyscrapers, built great highways, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and triumphed over every single challenge that they faced. After all we have been through together, we stand on the verge of the four greatest years in American history. With your help, we will restore America promise and we will rebuild the nation that we love — and we love it so much. We are one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. So, to every parent who dreams for their child and every child who dreams for their future, I am with you, I will fight for you, and I will win for you. We’re going to win like never before. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.)Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.)In recent years, our nation has suffered greatly. But we are going to bring it back and make it great again, greater than ever before. We will be a nation like no other, full of compassion, courage, and exceptionalism. Our power will stop all wars and bring a new spirit of unity to a world that has been angry, violent, and totally unpredictable. America will be respected again and admired again, including by people of religion, faith, and goodwill. We will be prosperous, we will be proud, we will be strong, and we will win like never before. We will not be conquered, we will not be intimidated, we will not be broken, and we will not fail. From this day on, the United States of America will be a free, sovereign, and independent nation. We will stand bravely, we will live proudly, we will dream boldly, and nothing will stand in our way because we are Americans. The future is ours, and our golden age has just begun. Thank you. God bless America. Thank you all. Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you. (Applause.) END 12:40 P.M. EST
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including my authority as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. The threat of attack by ballistic, hypersonic, and cruise missiles, and other advanced aerial attacks, remains the most catastrophic threat facing the United States. President Ronald Reagan endeavored to build an effective defense against nuclear attacks, and while this program resulted in many technological advances, it was canceled before its goal could be realized. And since the United States withdrew from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty in 2002 and initiated development of limited homeland missile defense, official United States homeland missile defense policy has remained only to stay ahead of rogue-nation threats and accidental or unauthorized missile launches. Over the past 40 years, rather than lessening, the threat from next-generation strategic weapons has become more intense and complex with the development by peer and near-peer adversaries of next-generation delivery systems and their own homeland integrated air and missile defense capabilities. Sec. 2. Policy. To further the goal of peace through strength, it is the policy of the United States that: (a) The United States will provide for the common defense of its citizens and the Nation by deploying and maintaining a next-generation missile defense shield; (b) The United States will deter — and defend its citizens and critical infrastructure against — any foreign aerial attack on the Homeland; and (c) The United States will guarantee its secure second-strike capability. Sec. 3. Implementation. Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Defense shall: (a) Submit to the President a reference architecture, capabilities-based requirements, and an implementation plan for the next-generation missile defense shield. The architecture shall include, at a minimum, plans for: (i) Defense of the United States against ballistic, hypersonic, advanced cruise missiles, and other next-generation aerial attacks from peer, near-peer, and rogue adversaries; (ii) Acceleration of the deployment of the Hypersonic and Ballistic Tracking Space Sensor layer; (iii) Development and deployment of proliferated space-based interceptors capable of boost-phase intercept; (iv) Deployment of underlayer and terminal-phase intercept capabilities postured to defeat a countervalue attack; (v) Development and deployment of a custody layer of the Proliferated Warfighter Space Architecture; (vi) Development and deployment of capabilities to defeat missile attacks prior to launch and in the boost phase; (vii) Development and deployment of a secure supply chain for all components with next-generation security and resilience features; and(viii) Development and deployment of non-kinetic capabilities to augment the kinetic defeat of ballistic, hypersonic, advanced cruise missiles, and other next-generation aerial attacks; (b) Review relevant authorities and organization of the Department of Defense to develop and deploy capabilities at the necessary speed to implement this directive; (c) Jointly with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, submit to the President a plan to fund this directive, allowing sufficient time for consideration by the President before finalization of the Fiscal Year 2026 Budget; and (d) In cooperation with United States Strategic Command and United States Northern Command, submit to the President: (i) An updated assessment of the strategic missile threat to the Homeland; and(ii) A prioritized set of locations to progressively defend against a countervalue attack by nuclear adversaries. Sec. 4. Allied and Theater Missile Defense Review. The United States continues to cooperate on missile defense with its allies and partners to aid in the defense of ally populations and troops and of forward-deployed United States troops. Following the submission to the President of the next-generation missile defense reference architecture under section 3(a) of this order, the Secretary of Defense shall direct a review of theater missile defense posture and initiatives to identify ways in which the United States and its allies and partners can: (a) Increase bilateral and multilateral cooperation on missile defense technology development, capabilities, and operations; (b) Improve theater missile defenses of forward-deployed United States troops and allied territories, troops, and populations; and (c) Increase and accelerate the provision of United States missile defense capabilities to allies and partners. Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 27, 2025.
Today marks the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau, the Nazi concentration camp in Poland that stood at the center of the Holocaust and focus for their systematic slaughter of the Jewish people. Between 1940 and 1945, more than one million Jews, religious leaders, disabled persons, and other innocent victims were viciously and mercilessly executed in Auschwitz at the hands of the evil Nazi regime — culminating in one of the darkest chapters in human history. On this solemn day, America joins the Jewish community, the people of Poland, and the entire world in mourning the lives lost, the souls battered, the heroes forgotten, and the countless men and women who gave their lives for the cause of freedom. Over those 5 gruesome years at Auschwitz, mothers and fathers lost their children, daughters and sons lost their parents, and wives and husbands lost their soulmates to the deadly scourge of anti-Semitism — leaving an unfillable void in their hearts. To those who lost family members and loved ones, we pray that Almighty God will grant you comfort and strength. To those who survived the atrocities at Auschwitz, we honor your courage, we salute your sacrifice, and we offer you our enduring love and unceasing gratitude. And to every person touched by the calamities of the Holocaust, we give you our unwavering devotion and eternal promise to never forget the evils that took place during that dark time in history. Sadly, despite decades of wisdom shared by survivors, years of reflection on the depravities committed, and decades of progress towards peace, the poison of anti-Semitism still courses through the veins of cowards in dark corners of the world. So today, we renew our promise that anti-Semitism has no place in a civilized society, no place in our foreign policy, and no place in the United States of America. In the years since the liberation of Auschwitz on this day eight decades ago, the grave offenses that took place during the Holocaust and the cries of the Jewish people have echoed throughout the halls of history. In the wake of the oppression, persecution, and injustice committed at Auschwitz and elsewhere in Europe, the Jewish people gallantly persevered to re-found their homeland in the modern State of Israel — our mighty friend. To this day, the Jewish people proudly represent the peak of human tenacity and the pinnacle of human triumph. As we commemorate this somber occasion, we pay tribute to the undying spirit of the Jewish community. We reaffirm our commitment to educating our children and every future generation about the horrors that took place within the confines of Auschwitz and other concentration and death camps. We renew our resolve to end anti-Semitism and religious bigotry of all forms. We proudly reassert our strong bonds of friendship with the State of Israel. And we declare the timeless truth that every human being is a child of God and inherently worthy of dignity and respect. NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 27, 2025, as a National Day of Remembrance of the 80th Anniversary of the Liberation of Auschwitz. On this day, I call upon every American citizen to observe this day with programs, ceremonies, and prayers commemorating the victims of the Holocaust and honoring the sacrifices of the men and women who helped liberate the victims of the Nazis at Auschwitz. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand thistwenty-seventh day of January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE THE PERMANENT REPRESENTATIVE OF THE UNITED STATES TO THE ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT SUBJECT: The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Global Tax Deal (Global Tax Deal) The OECD Global Tax Deal supported under the prior administration not only allows extraterritorial jurisdiction over American income but also limits our Nation’s ability to enact tax policies that serve the interests of American businesses and workers. Because of the Global Tax Deal and other discriminatory foreign tax practices, American companies may face retaliatory international tax regimes if the United States does not comply with foreign tax policy objectives. This memorandum recaptures our Nation’s sovereignty and economic competitiveness by clarifying that the Global Tax Deal has no force or effect in the United States. Section 1. Applicability of the Global Tax Deal. The Secretary of the Treasury and the Permanent Representative of the United States to the OECD shall notify the OECD that any commitments made by the prior administration on behalf of the United States with respect to the Global Tax Deal have no force or effect within the United States absent an act by the Congress adopting the relevant provisions of the Global Tax Deal. The Secretary of the Treasury and the United States Trade Representative shall take all additional necessary steps within their authority to otherwise implement the findings of this memorandum. Sec. 2. Options for Protection from Discriminatory and Extraterritorial Tax Measures. The Secretary of the Treasury in consultation with the United States Trade Representative shall investigate whether any foreign countries are not in compliance with any tax treaty with the United States or have any tax rules in place, or are likely to put tax rules in place, that are extraterritorial or disproportionately affect American companies, and develop and present to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, a list of options for protective measures or other actions that the United States should adopt or take in response to such non-compliance or tax rules. The Secretary of the Treasury shall deliver findings and recommendations to the President, through the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, within 60 days. Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or its head; or (ii) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

In his first month back in office, President Donald J. Trump has taken extraordinary action to usher in a new Golden Age of America – through border security, deregulation, government accountability, and leveling the playing field for American workers, to name a few. The positive effects of President Trump’s policies continue to be felt across the country. Here are some headlines you may have missed this weekend:
The President of the United States of America, The Honorable Donald J. Trump hosted the Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi for an Official Working Visit in Washington, DC on February 13, 2025. As the leaders of sovereign and vibrant democracies that value freedom, the rule of law, human rights, and pluralism, President Trump and Prime Minister Modi reaffirmed the strength of the India-U.S. Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, anchored in mutual trust, shared interests, goodwill and robust engagement of their citizens. Today, President Trump and Prime Minister Modi launched a new initiative – the “U.S.-India COMPACT (Catalyzing Opportunities for Military Partnership, Accelerated Commerce & Technology) for the 21st Century” – to drive transformative change across key pillars of cooperation. Under this initiative, they committed to a results-driven agenda with initial outcomes this year to demonstrate the level of trust for a mutually beneficial partnership. Defense 1. Highlighting the deepening convergence of U.S.-India strategic interests, the leaders reaffirmed their unwavering commitment to a dynamic defense partnership spanning multiple domains. To advance defense ties further, the leaders announced plans to sign this year a new ten-year Framework for the U.S.-India Major Defense Partnership in the 21st Century. 2. The leaders welcomed the significant integration of U.S.-origin defense items into India’s inventory to date, including C‑130J Super Hercules, C‑17 Globemaster III, P‑8I Poseidon aircraft; CH‑47F Chinooks, MH‑60R Seahawks, and AH‑64E Apaches; Harpoon anti-ship missiles; M777 howitzers; and MQ‑9Bs. The leaders determined that the U.S. would expand defense sales and co-production with India to strengthen interoperability and defense industrial cooperation. They announced plans to pursue this year new procurements and co-production arrangements for “Javelin” Anti-Tank Guided Missiles and “Stryker” Infantry Combat Vehicles in India to rapidly meet India’s defense requirements. They also expect completion of procurement for six additional P-8I Maritime Patrol aircraft to enhance India’s maritime surveillance reach in the Indian Ocean Region following agreement on sale terms. 3. Recognizing that India is a Major Defense Partner with Strategic Trade Authorization-1 (STA‑1) authorization and a key Quad partner, the U.S. and India will review their respective arms transfer regulations, including International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), in order to streamline defense trade, technology exchange and maintenance, spare supplies and in-country repair and overhaul of U.S.-provided defense systems. The leaders also called for opening negotiations this year for a Reciprocal Defense Procurement (RDP) agreement to better align their procurement systems and enable the reciprocal supply of defense goods and services. The leaders pledged to accelerate defense technology cooperation across space, air defense, missile, maritime and undersea technologies, with the U.S. announcing a review of its policy on releasing fifth generation fighters and undersea systems to India. 4. Building on the U.S.-India Roadmap for Defense Industrial Cooperation and recognizing the rising importance of autonomous systems, the leaders announced a new initiative – the Autonomous Systems Industry Alliance (ASIA) – to scale industry partnerships and production in the Indo-Pacific. The leaders welcomed a new partnership between Anduril Industries and Mahindra Group on advanced autonomous technologies to co-develop and co-produce state-of-the-art maritime systems and advanced AI-enabled counter Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) to strengthen regional security, and between L3 Harris and Bharat Electronics for co-development of active towed array systems. 5. The leaders also pledged to elevate military cooperation across all domains – air, land, sea, space, and cyberspace – through enhanced training, exercises, and operations, incorporating the latest technologies. The leaders welcomed the forthcoming “Tiger Triumph” tri-service exercise (first inaugurated in 2019) with larger scale and complexity to be hosted in India. 6. Finally, the leaders committed to break new ground to support and sustain the overseas deployments of the U.S. and Indian militaries in the Indo-Pacific, including enhanced logistics and intelligence sharing, as well as arrangements to improve force mobility for joint humanitarian and disaster relief operations along with other exchanges and security cooperation engagements.Trade and Investment7. The leaders resolved to expand trade and investment to make their citizens more prosperous, nations stronger, economies more innovative and supply chains more resilient. They resolved to deepen the U.S.-India trade relationship to promote growth that ensures fairness, national security and job creation. To this end, the leaders set a bold new goal for bilateral trade – “Mission 500” – aiming to more than double total bilateral trade to $500 billion by 2030. 8. Recognizing that this level of ambition would require new, fair-trade terms, the leaders announced plans to negotiate the first tranche of a mutually beneficial, multi-sector Bilateral Trade Agreement (BTA) by fall of 2025. The leaders committed to designate senior representatives to advance these negotiations and to ensure that the trade relationship fully reflects the aspirations of the COMPACT. To advance this innovative, wide-ranging BTA, the U.S. and India will take an integrated approach to strengthen and deepen bilateral trade across the goods and services sector, and will work towards increasing market access, reducing tariff and non-tariff barriers, and deepening supply chain integration. 9. The leaders welcomed early steps to demonstrate mutual commitment to address bilateral trade barriers. The United States welcomed India’s recent measures to lower tariffs on U.S. products of interest in the areas of bourbon, motorcycles, ICT products and metals, as well as measures to enhance market access for U.S. agricultural products, like alfalfa hay and duck meat, and medical devices. India also expressed appreciation for U.S. measures taken to enhance exports of Indian mangoes and pomegranates to the United States. Both sides also pledged to collaborate to enhance bilateral trade by increasing U.S. exports of industrial goods to India and Indian exports of labor-intensive manufactured products to the United States. The two sides will also work together to increase trade in agricultural goods.10. Finally, the leaders committed to drive opportunities for U.S. and Indian companies to make greenfield investments in high-value industries in each other’s countries. In this regard, the leaders welcomed ongoing investments by Indian companies worth approximately $7.35 billion, such as those by Hindalco’s Novelis in finished aluminum goods at their state-of-the art facilities in Alabama and Kentucky; JSW in steel manufacturing operations at Texas and Ohio; Epsilon Advanced Materials in the manufacture of critical battery materials in North Carolina; and Jubilant Pharma in the manufacture of injectables in Washington. These investments support over 3,000 high-quality jobs for local families. Energy Security11. The leaders agreed that energy security is fundamental to economic growth, social well-being and technical innovation in both countries. They underscored the importance of U.S.-India collaboration to ensure energy affordability, reliability, and availability and stable energy markets. Realizing the consequential role of the U.S. and India, as leading producers and consumers, in driving the global energy landscape, the leaders re-committed to the U.S.-India Energy Security Partnership, including in oil, gas, and civil nuclear energy. 12. The leaders underscored the importance of enhancing the production of hydrocarbons to ensure better global energy prices and secure affordable and reliable energy access for their citizens. The leaders also underscored the value of strategic petroleum reserves to preserve economic stability during crises and resolved to work with key partners to expand strategic oil reserve arrangements. In this context, the U.S. side affirmed its firm support for India to join the International Energy Agency as a full member. 13. The leaders reaffirmed their commitment to increase energy trade, as part of efforts to ensure energy security, and to establish the United States as a leading supplier of crude oil and petroleum products and liquified natural gas to India, in line with the growing needs and priorities of our dynamic economies. They underscored the tremendous scope and opportunity to increase trade in the hydrocarbon sector including natural gas, ethane and petroleum products as part of efforts to ensure supply diversification and energy security. The leaders committed to enhance investments, particularly in oil and gas infrastructure, and facilitate greater cooperation between the energy companies of the two countries. 14. The leaders announced their commitment to fully realize the U.S.-India 123 Civil Nuclear Agreement by moving forward with plans to work together to build U.S.-designed nuclear reactors in India through large scale localization and possible technology transfer. Both sides welcomed the recent Budget announcement by Government of India to take up amendments to the Atomic Energy Act and the Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage Act (CLNDA) for nuclear reactors and further decided to establish bilateral arrangements in accordance with CLNDA, that would address the issue of civil liability and facilitate the collaboration of Indian and U.S. industry in the production and deployment of nuclear reactors. This path forward will unlock plans to build large U.S.-designed reactors and enable collaboration to develop, deploy and scale up nuclear power generation with advanced small modular reactors. Technology and Innovation15. The leaders announced the launch of the U.S.-India TRUST (“Transforming the Relationship Utilizing Strategic Technology”) initiative, which will catalyze government-to-government, academia and private sector collaboration to promote application of critical and emerging technologies in areas like defense, artificial intelligence, semiconductors, quantum, biotechnology, energy and space, while encouraging the use of verified technology vendors and ensuring sensitive technologies are protected. 16. As a central pillar of the “TRUST” initiative, the leaders committed to work with U.S. and Indian private industry to put forward a U.S.-India Roadmap on Accelerating AI Infrastructure by the end of the year, identifying constraints to financing, building, powering, and connecting large-scale U.S.-origin AI infrastructure in India with milestones and future actions. The U.S. and India will work together to enable industry partnerships and investments in next generation data centers, cooperation on development and access to compute and processors for AI, for innovations in AI models and building AI applications for solving societal challenges while addressing the protections and controls necessary to protect these technologies and reduce regulatory barriers.17. The leaders announced the launch of INDUS Innovation, a new innovation bridge modeled after the successful INDUS-X platform, that will advance U.S.-India industry and academic partnerships and foster investments in space, energy, and other emerging technologies to maintain U.S. and India leadership in innovation and to meet the needs of the 21st century. The leaders also reinforced their commitment to the INDUS-X initiative, which facilities partnerships between U.S. and Indian defense companies, investors and universities to produce critical capability for our militaries and welcomed the next summit in 2025. 18. The leaders also committed, as part of the TRUST initiative, to build trusted and resilient supply chains, including for semiconductors, critical minerals, advanced materials and pharmaceuticals. As part of this effort, the leaders plan to encourage public and private investments to expand Indian manufacturing capacity, including in the U.S., for active pharmaceutical ingredients for critical medicines. These investments will create good jobs, diversify vital supply chains, and reduce the risk of life-saving drug shortages in both the United States and India.19. Recognizing the strategic importance of critical minerals for emerging technologies and advanced manufacturing, India and the United States will accelerate collaboration in research and development and promote investment across the entire critical mineral value chain, as well as through the Mineral Security Partnership, of which both the United States and India are members. Both countries have committed to intensifying efforts to deepen cooperation in the exploration, beneficiation, and processing as well as recycling technologies of critical minerals. To this end, the leaders announced the launch of the Strategic Mineral Recovery initiative, a new U.S.-India program to recover and process critical minerals (including lithium, cobalt, and rare earths) from heavy industries like aluminum, coal mining and oil and gas.20. The leaders hailed 2025 as a pioneering year for U.S.-India civil space cooperation, with plans for a NASA-ISRO effort through AXIOM to bring the first Indian astronaut to the International Space Station (ISS), and early launch of the joint “NISAR” mission, the first of its kind to systematically map changes to the Earth’s surface using dual radars. The leaders called for more collaboration in space exploration, including on long duration human spaceflight missions, spaceflight safety and sharing of expertise and professional exchanges in emerging areas, including planetary protection. The leaders committed to further commercial space collaboration through industry engagements in conventional and emerging areas, such as connectivity, advanced spaceflight, satellite and space launch systems, space sustainability, space tourism and advanced space manufacturing. 21. The leaders underscored the value of deepening ties between the U.S. and Indian scientific research communities, announcing a new partnership between the U.S. National Science Foundation and the Indian Anusandhan National Research Foundation in researching critical and emerging technologies. This partnership builds on ongoing collaboration between the U.S. National Science Foundation and several Indian science agencies to enable joint research in the areas of semiconductors, connected vehicles, machine learning, next-generation telecommunications, intelligent transportation systems, and future biomanufacturing. 22. The leaders determined that their governments redouble efforts to address export controls, enhance high technology commerce, and reduce barriers to technology transfer between our two countries, while addressing technology security. The leaders also resolved to work together to counter the common challenge of unfair practices in export controls by third parties seeking to exploit overconcentration of critical supply chains. Multilateral Cooperation23. The leaders reaffirmed that a close partnership between the U.S. and India is central to a free, open, peaceful and prosperous Indo-Pacific region. As Quad partners, the leaders reiterated that this partnership is underpinned by the recognition of ASEAN centrality; adherence to international law and good governance; support for safety and freedom of navigation, overflight and other lawful uses of the seas; and unimpeded lawful commerce; and advocacy for peaceful resolution of maritime disputes in accordance with international law. 24. Prime Minister Modi looks forward to hosting President Trump in New Delhi for the Quad leaders’ Summit, ahead of which the leaders will activate new Quad initiatives on shared airlift capacity to support civilian response to natural disasters and maritime patrols to improve interoperability. 25. The leaders resolved to increase cooperation, enhance diplomatic consultations, and increase tangible collaboration with partners in the Middle East. They highlighted the importance of investing in critical infrastructure and economic corridors to advancing peace and security in the region. The leaders plan to convene partners from the India-Middle East-Europe Corridor and the I2U2 Group within the next six months in order to announce new initiatives in 2025. 26. The US appreciates India’s role as a developmental, humanitarian assistance and net security provider in the Indian Ocean Region. In this context, the leaders committed to deepen bilateral dialogue and cooperation across the vast Indian Ocean region and launched the Indian Ocean Strategic Venture, a new bilateral, whole-of-government forum to advance coordinated investments in economic connectivity and commerce. Supporting greater Indian Ocean connectivity, the leaders also welcomed Meta’s announcement of a multi-billion, multi-year investment in an undersea cable project that will begin work this year and ultimately stretch over 50,000 km to connect five continents and strengthen global digital highways in the Indian Ocean region and beyond. India intends to invest in maintenance, repair and financing of undersea cables in the Indian Ocean, using trusted vendors. 27. The leaders recognized the need to build new plurilateral anchor partnerships in the Western Indian Ocean, Middle East, and Indo-Pacific to grow relationships, commerce and cooperation across defense, technology, energy and critical minerals. The leaders expect to announce new partnership initiatives across these sub-regions by fall of 2025. 28. The leaders also resolved to advance military cooperation in multinational settings to advance global peace and security. The leaders applauded India’s decision to take on a future leadership role in the Combined Maritime Forces naval task force to help secure sea lanes in the Arabian Sea.29. The leaders reaffirmed that the global scourge of terrorism must be fought, and terrorist safe havens eliminated from every corner of the world. They committed to strengthen cooperation against terrorist threats from groups, including Al-Qa’ida, ISIS, Jaish-e-Mohammad, and Lashkar-e-Tayyiba in order to prevent heinous acts like the attacks in Mumbai on 26/11 and the Abbey Gate bombing in Afghanistan on August 26, 2021. Recognizing a shared desire to bring to justice those who would harm our citizens, the U.S. announced that the extradition to India of Tahawwur Rana has been approved. The leaders further called on Pakistan to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai, and Pathankot attacks and ensure that its territory is not used to carry out cross-border terrorist attacks. The leaders also pledged to work together to prevent proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems and to deny access to such weapons by terrorists and non-state actors.People to People Cooperation30. President Trump and Prime Minister Modi noted the importance of advancing the people-to-people ties between the two countries. In this context, they noted that the more than 300,000 strong Indian student community contributes over $8 billion annually to the U.S. economy and helped create a number of direct and indirect jobs. They recognized that the talent flow and movement of students, researchers and employees, has mutually benefitted both countries. Recognizing the importance of international academic collaborations in fostering innovation, improving learning outcomes and development of a future-ready workforce, both leaders resolved to strengthen collaborations between the higher education institutions through efforts such as joint/dual degree and twinning programs, establishing joint Centers of Excellence, and setting up of offshore campuses of premier educational institutions of the U.S. in India.31. Both leaders emphasized that the evolution of the world into a global workplace calls for putting in place innovative, mutually advantageous and secure mobility frameworks. In this regard, the leaders committed to streamlining avenues for legal mobility of students and professionals, and facilitating short-term tourist and business travel, while also aggressively addressing illegal immigration and human trafficking by taking strong action against bad actors, criminal facilitators, and illegal immigration networks to promote mutual security for both countries.32. The leaders also committed to strengthen law enforcement cooperation to take decisive action against illegal immigration networks, organized crime syndicates, including narco-terrorists human and arms traffickers, as well as other elements who threaten public and diplomatic safety and security, and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of both nations.33. President Trump and Prime Minister Modi pledged to sustain high-level engagement between our governments, industries, and academic institutions and realize their ambitious vision for an enduring India-U.S. partnership that advances the aspirations of our people for a bright and prosperous future, serves the global good, and contributes to a free and open Indo-Pacific. 
President Donald J. Trump and Prime Minister Ishiba Shigeru held their first official meeting today in Washington, D.C., where they affirmed their determination to pursue a new golden age for U.S.-Japan relations that upholds a free and open Indo-Pacific and brings peace and prosperity to a violent and disorderly world. U.S.-Japan Cooperation for Peace The two leaders expressed their shared desire for bilateral security and defense cooperation under the U.S.-Japan Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security to grow stronger than ever, and emphasized that the U.S.-Japan Alliance remains the cornerstone of peace, security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific and beyond. Japan reiterated its unwavering commitment to fundamentally reinforce its own defense capabilities, which the United States welcomed. The United States underscored its unwavering commitment to the defense of Japan, using its full range of capabilities, including nuclear capabilities. The two leaders reaffirmed that Article V of the U.S.-Japan Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security applies to the Senkaku Islands, and reiterated their strong opposition to any action that seeks to undermine Japan’s longstanding and peaceful administration of the Senkaku Islands. In line with the U.S.-Japan Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security and the U.S.-Japan Guidelines for Defense Cooperation, Japan reaffirmed its role in maintaining peace and security in the Indo-Pacific region by seamlessly responding to any situation from peacetime to contingencies. This has been further enabled by Japan’s 2015 Legislation for Peace and Security, which enhances U.S.-Japan Alliance deterrence and response capabilities. In order to address an increasingly severe and complex security environment, the two leaders confirmed that they intend to further strengthen U.S.-Japan deterrence and response capabilities by enhancing defense and security cooperation, including by upgrading the respective command and control frameworks of U.S. and Japanese forces, increasing bilateral presence in Japan’s Southwest Islands, increasing readiness through more realistic training and exercises, further enhancing U.S. extended deterrence, and promoting defense equipment and technology cooperation, including co-production, co-development, and co-sustainment that bolsters allied supply chains and strengthens U.S. and Japanese defense industrial capacity, including maritime. The United States and Japan intend to continue their strong partnership in civil space and on aeronautics, science, and human exploration, including on the upcoming Crew-10 mission to the International Space Station that includes U.S. and Japanese astronauts as well as lunar surface exploration on future Artemis missions. The United States and Japan also intend to expand bilateral security cooperation in cyberspace by leveraging new technologies such as artificial intelligence and secure and resilient cloud services to deepen information-sharing. The United States welcomed Japan’s commitment, underpinned by a favorable trend of its defense budget increase, to building capabilities by FY 2027 to consolidate its primary responsibility for defending Japan, and, building on this significant foundation, to fundamentally reinforcing its defense capabilities beyond FY 2027. In order to maintain deterrence and mitigate the impact on local communities, the two leaders confirmed the vital importance of the steady implementation of the realignment of U.S. forces in Japan in accordance with the Okinawa Consolidation Plan, including the construction of the Futenma Replacement Facility at Henoko and the return of Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) Futenma. The two leaders instructed their foreign and defense ministers to convene a Security Consultative Committee (SCC: “2+2”) meeting at an early date to implement the above-mentioned cooperation in an expeditious manner. U.S.-Japan Cooperation for Growth and Prosperity The two leaders affirmed that bilateral economic cooperation, including on economic security, forms an indispensable part of Alliance cooperation. As close economic partners, the United States and Japan provide the largest amount of foreign direct investment and create high quality jobs in each other’s countries. Industries of both countries continue to play a vital role for each other’s supply chains.To chart an unwavering course for strengthening economic ties and elevating the economic partnership to the next level, the two leaders will seek to: promote business opportunities and significantly increase bilateral investment and employment; strengthen their industrial bases and collaborate to lead the world in developing critical technologies such as AI, quantum computing, and leading-edge semiconductors; enhance efforts to counter and build resilience against economic coercion; and jointly promote growth in the Indo-Pacific region underpinned by a free and fair economic order. They also resolved to continue discussions on aligning policies to further promote and protect critical and sensitive technologies, including through export controls, and to enhance supply chain resilience. With a shared commitment to the integrity of travel systems that underpin economic prosperity, they intend to strengthen efforts to vet travelers and routinely and securely share information to combat technology theft, travel by criminals, and illegal immigration. The two leaders announced their intention to strengthen energy security by unleashing the United States’ affordable and reliable energy and natural resources, and by increasing exports of U.S. liquefied natural gas to Japan in a mutually beneficial manner. They also welcomed efforts to diversify critical minerals supply chains and to collaborate on developing and deploying cutting-edge small modular reactor and other advanced nuclear reactor technology. The two leaders instructed their relevant ministers in charge to strengthen U.S.-Japan economic cooperation to achieve these shared goals. U.S.-Japan Coordination in the Indo-Pacific The two leaders shared views on the severe and complex security environment and expressed their determination to continuously cooperate to realize a free and open Indo-Pacific. As part of such cooperation, the two leaders intend to advance multilayered and aligned cooperation among like-minded countries, including Japan-Australia-India-U.S. (Quad), Japan-U.S.-Republic of Korea (ROK), Japan-U.S.-Australia, and Japan-U.S.-Philippines. Through these relationships, the United States, Japan, and like-minded partners can deliver high quality infrastructure investments in the region, including the deployment of Open Radio Access Networks in third countries. The two leaders reiterated their strong opposition to any attempts by the People’s Republic of China (PRC) to change the status quo by force or coercion in the East China Sea. The two leaders reaffirmed their strong opposition to the PRC’s unlawful maritime claims, militarization of reclaimed features, and threatening and provocative activities in the South China Sea. The two leaders emphasized the importance of maintaining peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait as an indispensable element of security and prosperity for the international community. They encouraged the peaceful resolution of cross-Strait issues, and opposed any attempts to unilaterally change the status quo by force or coercion. The two leaders also expressed support for Taiwan’s meaningful participation in international organizations. The two leaders expressed their serious concerns over and the need to address the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s (DPRK’s) nuclear and missile programs and reaffirmed their resolute commitment to the complete denuclearization of the DPRK. Both countries underscored the need to deter and counter the DPRK’s malicious cyber activities and the DPRK’s increasing military cooperation with Russia. In addition, both countries affirmed the importance of the Japan-U.S.-ROK trilateral partnership in responding to the DPRK and upholding regional peace and prosperity. Japan reiterated its determination to achieve an immediate resolution of the abductions issue, which the United States supported. Invitation to Visit Japan President Trump accepted an invitation from Prime Minister Ishiba for an official visit to Japan in the near future.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Background. The State of Alaska holds an abundant and largely untapped supply of natural resources including, among others, energy, mineral, timber, and seafood. Unlocking this bounty of natural wealth will raise the prosperity of our citizens while helping to enhance our Nation’s economic and national security for generations to come. By developing these resources to the fullest extent possible, we can help deliver price relief for Americans, create high-quality jobs for our citizens, ameliorate our trade imbalances, augment the Nation’s exercise of global energy dominance, and guard against foreign powers weaponizing energy supplies in theaters of geopolitical conflict. Unleashing this opportunity, however, requires an immediate end to the assault on Alaska’s sovereignty and its ability to responsibly develop these resources for the benefit of the Nation. It is, therefore, imperative to immediately reverse the punitive restrictions implemented by the previous administration that specifically target resource development on both State and Federal lands in Alaska. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to: (a) fully avail itself of Alaska’s vast lands and resources for the benefit of the Nation and the American citizens who call Alaska home; (b) efficiently and effectively maximize the development and production of the natural resources located on both Federal and State lands within Alaska; (c) expedite the permitting and leasing of energy and natural resource projects in Alaska; and (d) prioritize the development of Alaska’s liquified natural gas (LNG) potential, including the sale and transportation of Alaskan LNG to other regions of the United States and allied nations within the Pacific region. Sec. 3. Specific Agency Actions. (a) The heads of all executive departments and agencies, including but not limited to the Secretary of the Interior; the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere; and the Secretary of the Army acting through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Public Works, shall exercise all lawful authority and discretion available to them and take all necessary steps to: (i) rescind, revoke, revise, amend, defer, or grant exemptions from any and all regulations, orders, guidance documents, policies, and any other similar agency actions that are inconsistent with the policy set forth in section 2 of this order, including but not limited to agency actions promulgated, issued, or adopted between January 20, 2021, and January 20, 2025; and (ii) prioritize the development of Alaska’s LNG potential, including the permitting of all necessary pipeline and export infrastructure related to the Alaska LNG Project, giving due consideration to the economic and national security benefits associated with such development. (b) In addition to the actions outlined in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of the Interior shall exercise all lawful authority and discretion available to him and take all necessary steps to: (i) withdraw Secretarial Order 3401 dated June 1, 2021 (Comprehensive Analysis and Temporary Halt on All Activities in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge Relating to the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program); (ii) rescind the cancellation of any leases within the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, other than such lease cancellations as the Secretary of the Interior determines are consistent with the policy interests described in section 2 of this order, initiate additional leasing through the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program, and issue all permits, right-of-way permits, and easements necessary for the exploration, development, and production of oil and gas from leases within the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; (iii) rescind the final supplemental environmental impact statement entitled “Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement,” which is referred to in “Notice of Availability of the Final Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement, Alaska” 89 Fed. Reg. 88805 (November 8, 2024); (iv) place a temporary moratorium on all activities and privileges granted to any party pursuant to the record of decision signed on December 8, 2024, entitled “Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision,” which is referred to in “Notice of Availability of the Record of Decision for the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement for the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program, Alaska,” 89 Fed. Reg. 101042 (December 13, 2024), in order to review such record of decision in light of alleged legal deficiencies and for consideration of relevant public interests, and, as appropriate, conduct a new, comprehensive analysis of such deficiencies, interests, and environmental impacts; (v) reinstate the final environmental impact statement entitled “Final Environmental Impact Statement for the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program,” which is referred to in “Notice of Availability,” 84 Fed. Reg. 50472 (September 25, 2019); (vi) reinstate the record of decision signed on August 21, 2020, entitled “Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision,” which is referred to in “Notice of 2021 Coastal Plain Alaska Oil and Gas Lease Sale and Notice of Availability of the Detailed Statement of Sale,” 85 Fed. Reg. 78865 (December 7, 2020); (vii) evaluate changes to, including the potential recission of, Public Land Order 5150, signed by the Assistant Secretary of the Interior on December 28, 1971, and any subsequent amendments, modifications, or corrections to it; (viii) place a temporary moratorium on all activities and privileges granted to any party pursuant to the record of decision signed on June 27, 2024, entitled “Ambler Road Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement Record of Decision,” which is referred to in “Notice of Availability of the Ambler Road Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement, Alaska,” 89 Fed. Reg. 32458 (April 26, 2024), in order to review such record of decision in light of alleged legal deficiencies and for consideration of relevant public interests and, as appropriate, conduct a new, comprehensive analysis of such deficiencies, interests, and environmental impacts; and reinstate the record of decision signed on July 23, 2020, by the Bureau of Land Management and United States Army Corps of Engineers entitled “Ambler Road Environmental Impact Statement Joint Record of Decision,” which is referred to in “Notice of Availability of the Record of Decision for the Ambler Mining District Industrial Access Road Environmental Impact Statement,” 85 Fed. Reg. 45440 (July 28, 2020); (ix) rescind the Bureau of Land Management final rule entitled “Management and Protection of the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska,” 89 Fed. Reg. 38712 (May 7, 2024); (x) rescind any guidance issued by the Bureau of Land Management related to implementation of protection of subsistence resource values in the existing special areas and proposed new and modified special areas in the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska, as published on their website on January 16, 2025; (xi) facilitate the expedited development of a road corridor between the community of King Cove and the all-weather airport located in Cold Bay; (xii) place a temporary moratorium on all activities and privileges granted to any party pursuant to the record of decision signed on April 25, 2022, entitled “National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision,” (NEPA No. DOI-BLM-AK-R000-2019-0001-EIS), in order to review such record of decision in light of alleged legal deficiencies and for consideration of relevant public interests and, as appropriate, conduct a new, comprehensive analysis of such deficiencies, interests, and environmental impacts; (xiii) rescind the Bureau of Land Management final rule entitled “Management and Protection of the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska,” 89 Fed. Reg. 38712 (May 7, 2024), and rescind the Bureau of Land Management notice entitled “Special Areas Within the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska,” 89 Fed. Reg. 58181 (July 17, 2024); (xiv) reinstate Secretarial Order 3352 dated May 17, 2017 (National Petroleum Reserve – Alaska), which is referred to in “Final Report: Review of the Department of the Interior Actions that Potentially Burden Domestic Energy,” 82 Fed. Reg. 50532 (November 1, 2017), and the record of decision signed on December 31, 2020, entitled “National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision,” which is referred to in “Notice of Availability of the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Final Environmental Impact Statement,” 85 Fed. Reg. 38388 (June 26, 2020); (xv) reinstate the following Public Land Orders in their original form: (xvi) immediately review all Department of the Interior guidance regarding the taking of Alaska Native lands into trust and all Public Land Orders withdrawing lands for selection by Alaska Native Corporations to determine if any such agency action should be revoked to ensure the Department of the Interior’s actions are consistent with the Alaska Statehood Act of 1958 (Public Law 85-508), the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) (16 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.), the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of 1971 (43 U.S.C. 1601, et seq.), the Alaska Land Transfer Acceleration Act (Public Law 108-452), and the Alaska Native Vietnam-era Veterans Land Allotment Program under section 1629g-1 of title 43, United States Code. (xvii) rescind the record of decision “Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan,” signed on November 12, 2024, which is referred to in “Notice of Availability of the Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan for the Central Yukon Resource Management Plan/Environmental Impact Statement, Alaska,” 89 Fed. Reg. 92716 (November 22, 2024); (xviii) reimplement the draft resource management plan and environmental impact statement referenced in the National Park Service notice entitled “Notice of Availability for the Central Yukon Draft Resource Management Plan/Environmental Impact Statement, Alaska,” 85 Fed. Reg. 80143 (December 11, 2020); (xix) rescind the National Park Service final rule entitled “Alaska; Hunting and Trapping in National Preserves,” 89 Fed. Reg. 55059 (July 3, 2024), and reinstate the National Park Service final rule entitled “Alaska; Hunting and Trapping in National Preserves,” 85 Fed. Reg. 35181 (June 9, 2020), in its original form; (xx) deny the pending request to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to an establish indigenous sacred site in the Coastal Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; (xxi) immediately conduct a review of waterways in the State of Alaska and direct the Bureau of Land Management, in consultation with the State of Alaska, to provide recommendations of navigable waterways subject to the equal footing doctrine and the Submerged Lands Act of 1953, as amended, 43 U.S.C. 1301 et seq., and prepare Recordable Disclaimers of Interest pursuant to section 315 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, 43 U.S.C. 1745, to restore ownership of said waterways to the State as appropriate; (xxii) direct all bureaus of the Department of the Interior to consider the Alaskan cultural significance of hunting and fishing and the statutory priority of subsistence management required by the ANILCA, to conduct meaningful consultation with the State fish and wildlife management agencies prior to enacting land management plans or other regulations that affect the ability of Alaskans to hunt and fish on public lands, and to ensure to the greatest extent possible that hunting and fishing opportunities on Federal lands are consistent with similar opportunities on State lands; and (xxiii) identify and assess, in collaboration with the Secretary of Defense, the authorities and public and private resources necessary to immediately achieve the development and export of energy resources from Alaska — including but not limited to the long-term viability of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System and the associated Federal right-of-way as an energy corridor of critical national importance — to advance the Nation’s domestic and regional energy dominance, and submit that assessment to the President. (c) In addition to the actions outlined in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of Agriculture shall place a temporary moratorium on all activities and privileges authorized by the final rule and record of decision entitled “Special Areas; Roadless Area Conservation; National Forest System Lands in Alaska,” 88 Fed. Reg. 5252 (January 27, 2023), in order to review such rule and record of decision in light of alleged legal deficiencies and for consideration of relevant public interests and, as appropriate, conduct a new, comprehensive analysis of such deficiencies, interests, and environmental impacts. Further, the Secretary of Agriculture shall reinstate the final rule entitled “Special Areas; Roadless Area Conservation; National Forest System Lands in Alaska,” 85 Fed. Reg. 68688 (October 29, 2020). (d) In addition to the actions outlined in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, shall render all assistance requested by the Governor of Alaska to facilitate the clearing and maintenance of transportation infrastructure, consistent with applicable law. All such requests for assistance shall be transmitted to the Secretary of Defense, Secretary of the Interior, and Assistant to the President for Economic Policy for approval prior to initiation. (e) The Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, under the direction of the Secretary of the Army, shall immediately review, revise, or rescind any agency action that may in any way hinder, slow or otherwise delay any critical project in the State of Alaska. (f) The Secretary of Commerce, in coordination with the Secretary of the Interior, shall immediately review, revise or rescind any agency action that may in any way hinder, slow or otherwise delay any critical project in the State of Alaska. Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Background. America is blessed with an abundance of energy and natural resources that have historically powered our Nation’s economic prosperity. In recent years, burdensome and ideologically motivated regulations have impeded the development of these resources, limited the generation of reliable and affordable electricity, reduced job creation, and inflicted high energy costs upon our citizens. These high energy costs devastate American consumers by driving up the cost of transportation, heating, utilities, farming, and manufacturing, while weakening our national security. It is thus in the national interest to unleash America’s affordable and reliable energy and natural resources. This will restore American prosperity —- including for those men and women who have been forgotten by our economy in recent years. It will also rebuild our Nation’s economic and military security, which will deliver peace through strength. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States: (a) to encourage energy exploration and production on Federal lands and waters, including on the Outer Continental Shelf, in order to meet the needs of our citizens and solidify the United States as a global energy leader long into the future; (b) to establish our position as the leading producer and processor of non-fuel minerals, including rare earth minerals, which will create jobs and prosperity at home, strengthen supply chains for the United States and its allies, and reduce the global influence of malign and adversarial states; (c) to protect the United States’s economic and national security and military preparedness by ensuring that an abundant supply of reliable energy is readily accessible in every State and territory of the Nation; (d) to ensure that all regulatory requirements related to energy are grounded in clearly applicable law; (e) to eliminate the “electric vehicle (EV) mandate” and promote true consumer choice, which is essential for economic growth and innovation, by removing regulatory barriers to motor vehicle access; by ensuring a level regulatory playing field for consumer choice in vehicles; by terminating, where appropriate, state emissions waivers that function to limit sales of gasoline-powered automobiles; and by considering the elimination of unfair subsidies and other ill-conceived government-imposed market distortions that favor EVs over other technologies and effectively mandate their purchase by individuals, private businesses, and government entities alike by rendering other types of vehicles unaffordable; (f) to safeguard the American people’s freedom to choose from a variety of goods and appliances, including but not limited to lightbulbs, dishwashers, washing machines, gas stoves, water heaters, toilets, and shower heads, and to promote market competition and innovation within the manufacturing and appliance industries; (g) to ensure that the global effects of a rule, regulation, or action shall, whenever evaluated, be reported separately from its domestic costs and benefits, in order to promote sound regulatory decision making and prioritize the interests of the American people; (h) to guarantee that all executive departments and agencies (agencies) provide opportunity for public comment and rigorous, peer-reviewed scientific analysis; and (i) to ensure that no Federal funding be employed in a manner contrary to the principles outlined in this section, unless required by law. Sec. 3. Immediate Review of All Agency Actions that Potentially Burden the Development of Domestic Energy Resources. (a) The heads of all agencies shall review all existing regulations, orders, guidance documents, policies, settlements, consent orders, and any other agency actions (collectively, agency actions) to identify those agency actions that impose an undue burden on the identification, development, or use of domestic energy resources — with particular attention to oil, natural gas, coal, hydropower, biofuels, critical mineral, and nuclear energy resources — or that are otherwise inconsistent with the policy set forth in section 2 of this order, including restrictions on consumer choice of vehicles and appliances. (b) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the head of each agency shall, in consultation with the director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the National Economic Council (NEC), develop and begin implementing action plans to suspend, revise, or rescind all agency actions identified as unduly burdensome under subsection (a) of this section, as expeditiously as possible and consistent with applicable law. The head of any agency who determines that such agency does not have agency actions described in subsection (a) of this section shall submit to the Director of OMB a written statement to that effect and, absent a determination by the Director of OMB that such agency does have agency actions described in this subsection, shall have no further responsibilities under this section. (c) Agencies shall promptly notify the Attorney General of any steps taken pursuant to subsection (a) of this section so that the Attorney General may, as appropriate: (i) provide notice of this Executive Order and any such actions to any court with jurisdiction over pending litigation in which such actions may be relevant; and (ii) request that such court stay or otherwise delay further litigation, or seek other appropriate relief consistent with this order, pending the completion of the administrative actions described in this order. (d) Pursuant to the policy outlined in section 2 of this order, the Attorney General shall consider whether pending litigation against illegal, dangerous, or harmful policies should be resolved through stays or other relief. Sec. 4. Revocation of and Revisions to Certain Presidential and Regulatory Actions. (a) The following are revoked and any offices established therein are abolished: (i) Executive Order 13990 of January 20, 2021 (Protecting Public Health and the Environment and Restoring Science to Tackle the Climate Crisis); (ii) Executive Order 13992 of January 20, 2021 (Revocation of Certain Executive Orders Concerning Federal Regulation); (iii) Executive Order 14008 of January 27, 2021 (Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad); (iv) Executive Order 14007 of January 27, 2021 (President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology); (v) Executive Order 14013 of February 4, 2021 (Rebuilding and Enhancing Programs to Resettle Refugees and Planning for the Impact of Climate Change on Migration); (vi) Executive Order 14027 of May 7, 2021 (Establishment of the Climate Change Support Office); (vii) Executive Order 14030 of May 20, 2021 (Climate-Related Financial Risk); (viii) Executive Order 14037 of August 5, 2021 (Strengthening American Leadership in Clean Cars and Trucks); (ix) Executive Order 14057 of December 8, 2021 (Catalyzing Clean Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal Sustainability); (x) Executive Order 14072 of April 22, 2022 (Strengthening the Nation’s Forests, Communities, and Local Economies); (xi) Executive Order 14082 of September 12, 2022 (Implementation of the Energy and Infrastructure Provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022); and (xii) Executive Order 14096 of April 21, 2023 (Revitalizing Our Nation’s Commitment to Environmental Justice for All). (b) All activities, programs, and operations associated with the American Climate Corps, including actions taken by any agency shall be terminated immediately. Within one day of the date of this order, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit a letter to all parties to the “American Climate Corps Memorandum of Understanding” dated December 2023 to terminate the memorandum, and the head of each party to the memorandum shall agree to the termination in writing. (c) Any assets, funds, or resources allocated to an entity or program abolished by subsection (a) of this section shall be redirected or disposed of in accordance with applicable law. (d) The head of any agency that has taken action respecting offices and programs in subsection (a) shall take all necessary steps to ensure that all such actions are terminated or, if necessary, appropriate, or required by law, that such activities are transitioned to other agencies or entities. (e) Any contract or agreement between the United States and any third party on behalf of the entities or programs abolished in subsection (a) of this section, or in furtherance of them, shall be terminated for convenience, or otherwise, as quickly as permissible under the law. Sec. 5. Unleashing Energy Dominance through Efficient Permitting. (a) Executive Order 11991 of May 24, 1977 (Relating to protection and enhancement of environmental quality) is hereby revoked. (b) To expedite and simplify the permitting process, within 30 days of the date of this order, the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) shall provide guidance on implementing the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq., and propose rescinding CEQ’s NEPA regulations found at 40 CFR 1500 et seq. (c) Following the provision of the guidance, the Chairman of CEQ shall convene a working group to coordinate the revision of agency-level implementing regulations for consistency. The guidance in subsection (b) and any resulting implementing regulations must expedite permitting approvals and meet deadlines established in the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023 (Public Law 118-5). Consistent with applicable law, all agencies must prioritize efficiency and certainty over any other objectives, including those of activist groups, that do not align with the policy goals set forth in section 2 of this order or that could otherwise add delays and ambiguity to the permitting process. (d) The Secretaries of Defense, Interior, Agriculture, Commerce, Housing and Urban Development, Transportation, Energy, Homeland Security, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Chairman of CEQ, and the heads of any other relevant agencies shall undertake all available efforts to eliminate all delays within their respective permitting processes, including through, but not limited to, the use of general permitting and permit by rule. For any project an agency head deems essential for the Nation’s economy or national security, agencies shall use all possible authorities, including emergency authorities, to expedite the adjudication of Federal permits. Agencies shall work closely with project sponsors to realize the ultimate construction or development of permitted projects. (e) The Director of the NEC and the Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs shall jointly prepare recommendations to Congress, which shall: (i) facilitate the permitting and construction of interstate energy transportation and other critical energy infrastructure, including, but not limited to, pipelines, particularly in regions of the Nation that have lacked such development in recent years; and (ii) provide greater certainty in the Federal permitting process, including, but not limited to, streamlining the judicial review of the application of NEPA. Sec. 6. Prioritizing Accuracy in Environmental Analyses. (a) In all Federal permitting adjudications or regulatory processes, all agencies shall adhere to only the relevant legislated requirements for environmental considerations and any considerations beyond these requirements are eliminated. In fulfilling all such requirements, agencies shall strictly use the most robust methodologies of assessment at their disposal and shall not use methodologies that are arbitrary or ideologically motivated. (b) The Interagency Working Group on the Social Cost of Greenhouse Gases (IWG), which was established pursuant to Executive Order 13990, is hereby disbanded, and any guidance, instruction, recommendation, or document issued by the IWG is withdrawn as no longer representative of governmental policy including: (i) the Presidential Memorandum of January 27, 2021 (Restoring Trust in Government Through Scientific Integrity and Evidence-Based Policymaking); (ii) the Report of the Greenhouse Gas Monitoring and Measurement Interagency Working Group of November 2023 (National Strategy to Advance an Integrated U.S. Greenhouse Gas Measurement, Monitoring, and Information System); (iii) the Technical Support Document of February 2021 (Social Cost of Carbon, Methane, and Nitrous Oxide Interim Estimates under Executive Order 13990); and (iv) estimates of the social cost of greenhouse gases, including the estimates for the social cost of carbon, the social cost of methane, or the social cost of nitrous oxide based, in whole or in part, on the IWG’s work or guidance. (c) The calculation of the “social cost of carbon” is marked by logical deficiencies, a poor basis in empirical science, politicization, and the absence of a foundation in legislation. Its abuse arbitrarily slows regulatory decisions and, by rendering the United States economy internationally uncompetitive, encourages a greater human impact on the environment by affording less efficient foreign energy producers a greater share of the global energy and natural resource market. Consequently, within 60 days of the date of this order, the Administrator of the EPA shall issue guidance to address these harmful and detrimental inadequacies, including consideration of eliminating the “social cost of carbon” calculation from any Federal permitting or regulatory decision. (d) Prior to the guidance issued pursuant to subsection (c) of this section, agencies shall ensure estimates to assess the value of changes in greenhouse gas emissions resulting from agency actions, including with respect to the consideration of domestic versus international effects and evaluating appropriate discount rates, are, to the extent permitted by law, consistent with the guidance contained in OMB Circular A-4 of September 17, 2003 (Regulatory Analysis). (e) Furthermore, the head of each agency shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, initiate a process to make such changes to any rule, regulation, policy or action as may be necessary to ensure consistency with the Regulatory Analysis. (f) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Administrator of the EPA, in collaboration with the heads of any other relevant agencies, shall submit joint recommendations to the Director of OMB on the legality and continuing applicability of the Administrator’s findings, “Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases Under Section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act,” Final Rule, 74 FR 66496 (December 15, 2009). Sec. 7. Terminating the Green New Deal. (a) All agencies shall immediately pause the disbursement of funds appropriated through the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-169) or the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58), including but not limited to funds for electric vehicle charging stations made available through the National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Formula Program and the Charging and Fueling Infrastructure Discretionary Grant Program, and shall review their processes, policies, and programs for issuing grants, loans, contracts, or any other financial disbursements of such appropriated funds for consistency with the law and the policy outlined in section 2 of this order. Within 90 days of the date of this order, all agency heads shall submit a report to the Director of the NEC and Director of OMB that details the findings of this review, including recommendations to enhance their alignment with the policy set forth in section 2. No funds identified in this subsection (a) shall be disbursed by a given agency until the Director of OMB and Assistant to the President for Economic Policy have determined that such disbursements are consistent with any review recommendations they have chosen to adopt. (b) When procuring goods and services, making decisions about leases, and making other arrangements that result in disbursements of Federal funds, agencies shall prioritize cost-effectiveness, American workers and businesses, and the sensible use of taxpayer money, to the greatest extent. The Director of OMB shall finalize and circulate guidelines to further implement this subsection. (c) All agencies shall assess whether enforcement discretion of authorities and regulations can be utilized to advance the policy outlined in section 2 of this order. Within 30 days of the date of this order, each agency shall submit a report to the Director of OMB identifying any such instances. Sec. 8. Protecting America’s National Security.(a) The Secretary of Energy is directed restart reviews of applications for approvals of liquified natural gas export projects as expeditiously as possible, consistent with applicable law. In assessing the “Public Interest” to be advanced by any particular application, the Secretary of Energy shall consider the economic and employment impacts to the United States and the impact to the security of allies and partners that would result from granting the application. (b) With respect to any proposed deepwater port for the export of liquefied natural gas (project) for which a favorable record of decision (ROD) has previously been issued pursuant to the Deepwater Port Act of 1974 (DWPA), 33 U.S.C. 1501 et seq., the Administrator of the Maritime Administration (MARAD) shall, within 30 days of the date of this order and consistent with applicable law, determine whether any refinements to the project proposed subsequent to the ROD are likely to result in adverse environmental consequences that substantially differ from those associated with the originally-evaluated project so as to present a seriously different picture of the foreseeable adverse environmental consequences (seriously different consequences). In making this determination, MARAD shall qualitatively assess any difference in adverse environmental consequences between the project with and without the proposed refinements, including any potential consequences not addressed in the final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), which shall be considered adequate under NEPA notwithstanding any revisions to NEPA that may have been enacted following the final EIS. MARAD shall submit this determination, together with a detailed justification, to the Secretary of Transportation and to the President. (c) Pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, if MARAD determines that such refinements are not likely to result in seriously different consequences, it shall include in that determination a description of the refinements to supplement and update the ROD, if necessary and then no later than 30 additional days, he shall issue a DWPA license. (d) If MARAD determines, with concurrence from the Secretary of Transportation, that such proposed refinements are likely to result in seriously different consequences, it shall, within 60 days after submitting such determination, issue an Environmental Assessment (EA) examining such consequences and, with respect to all other environmental consequences not changed due to project refinements, shall reaffirm the conclusions of the final EIS. Within 30 days after issuing the EA, MARAD shall issue an addendum to the ROD, if necessary, and shall, within 30 additional days, issue a DWPA license consistent with the ROD. Sec. 9. Restoring America’s Mineral Dominance. (a) The Secretary of the Interior, Secretary of Agriculture, Administrator of the EPA, Chairman of CEQ, and the heads of any other relevant agencies, as appropriate, shall identify all agency actions that impose undue burdens on the domestic mining and processing of non-fuel minerals and undertake steps to revise or rescind such actions. (b) The Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture shall reassess any public lands withdrawals for potential revision. (c) The Secretary of the Interior shall instruct the Director of the U.S. Geological Survey to consider updating the Survey’s list of critical minerals, including for the potential of including uranium. (d) The Secretary of the Interior shall prioritize efforts to accelerate the ongoing, detailed geologic mapping of the United States, with a focus on locating previously unknown deposits of critical minerals. (e) The Secretary of Energy shall ensure that critical mineral projects, including the processing of critical minerals, receive consideration for Federal support, contingent on the availability of appropriated funds. (f) The United States Trade Representative shall assess whether exploitative practices and state-assisted mineral projects abroad are unlawful or unduly burden or restrict United States commerce. (g) The Secretary of Commerce shall assess the national security implications of the Nation’s mineral reliance and the potential for trade action. (h) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall assess the quantity and inflow of minerals that are likely the product of forced labor into the United States and whether such inflows pose a threat to national security and, within 90 days of the date of this order, shall provide this assessment to the Director of the NEC. (i) The Secretary of Defense shall consider the needs of the United States in supplying and maintaining the National Defense Stockpile, review the legal authorities and obligations in managing the National Defense Stockpile, and take all appropriate steps to ensure that the National Defense Stockpile will provide a robust supply of critical minerals in event of future shortfall. (j) Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State, Secretary of Commerce, Secretary of Labor, the United States Trade Representative, and the heads of any other relevant agencies, shall submit a report to the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy that includes policy recommendations to enhance the competitiveness of American mining and refining companies in other mineral-wealthy nations. (k) The Secretary of State shall consider opportunities to advance the mining and processing of minerals within the United States through the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue. Sec. 10. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
UNLEASHING PROSPERITY THROUGH DEREGULATION By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921, as amended (31 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.), and in order to promote prudent financial management and alleviate unnecessary regulatory burdens, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. The ever-expanding morass of complicated Federal regulation imposes massive costs on the lives of millions of Americans, creates a substantial restraint on our economic growth and ability to build and innovate, and hampers our global competitiveness. Despite the magnitude of their impact, these measures are often difficult for the average person or business to understand, as they require synthesizing the collective meaning not just of formal regulations but also rules, memoranda, administrative orders, guidance documents, policy statements, and interagency agreements that are not subject to the Administrative Procedure Act, further increasing compliance costs and the risk of costs of non-compliance. It is the policy of my Administration to significantly reduce the private expenditures required to comply with Federal regulations to secure America’s economic prosperity and national security and the highest possible quality of life for each citizen. To that end, it is important that for each new regulation issued, at least 10 prior regulations be identified for elimination. This practice is to ensure that the cost of planned regulations is responsibly managed and controlled through a rigorous regulatory budgeting process. Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the executive branch to be prudent and financially responsible in the expenditure of funds, from both public and private sources, and to alleviate unnecessary regulatory burdens placed on the American people. Sec. 3. Regulatory Cap for Fiscal Year 2025. (a) Unless prohibited by law, whenever an executive department or agency (agency) publicly proposes for notice and comment or otherwise promulgates a new regulation, it shall identify at least 10 existing regulations to be repealed. (b) For fiscal year 2025, which is in progress, the heads of all agencies are directed to ensure that the total incremental cost of all new regulations, including repealed regulations, being finalized this year, shall be significantly less than zero, as determined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (Director), unless otherwise required by law or instructions from the Director. (c) In furtherance of the requirement of subsection (a) of this section, any new incremental costs associated with new regulations shall, to the extent permitted by law, be offset by the elimination of existing costs associated with at least 10 prior regulations. (d) The Director shall provide the heads of agencies with guidance on the implementation of this section. Such guidance shall address, among other things, processes for standardizing the measurement and estimation of regulatory costs; standards for determining what qualifies as new and offsetting regulations; standards for determining the costs of existing regulations that are considered for elimination; processes for accounting for costs in different fiscal years; methods to oversee the issuance of rules with costs offset by savings at different times or different agencies; and emergencies and other circumstances that might justify individual waivers of the requirements of this section. The Director shall consider phasing in and updating these requirements. Sec. 4. Annual Regulatory Cost Submissions to the Office of Management and Budget. Beginning with the Regulatory Plans, as required under Executive Order 12866 of September 30, 1993 (Regulatory Planning and Review), as amended, or any successor order for fiscal year 2026, and for each fiscal year thereafter: (a) The head of each agency shall identify on an aggregated basis, for regulations that increase incremental cost, the offsetting regulations described in section 3(c) of this order, and provide the agency’s best approximation of the total costs or savings associated with each new regulation or repealed regulation. (b) Each regulation approved by the Director during the Presidential budget process shall be included in the Unified Regulatory Agenda required under Executive Order 12866, as amended, or any successor order. Unless otherwise required by law, no regulation shall be added to or removed from the Unified Regulatory Agenda without the approval of the Director. To accomplish the purposes of this order, the Director may also require additions to the Unified Regulatory Agenda and Regulatory Plan. (c) Unless otherwise required by law, no regulation shall be issued by an agency if it was not included in the most recent version or update of the published Unified Regulatory Agenda as required under Executive Order 12866, as amended, or any successor order, unless the issuance of such regulation was approved in advance in writing by the Director. (d) During the Presidential budget process, the Director shall identify to agencies a total amount of incremental costs that will be allowed for each agency in issuing new regulations and repealing regulations for each fiscal year after fiscal year 2025. No regulations exceeding the agency’s total incremental cost allowance will be permitted in that fiscal year, unless required by law or approved in writing by the Director. The total incremental cost allowance may allow an increase or require a reduction in total regulatory cost. (e) The Director shall provide the heads of agencies with guidance on the implementation of the requirements in this section. Sec. 5. Definition. For purposes of this order, the term “regulation” or “rule” means an agency statement of general or particular applicability and future effect designed to implement, interpret, or prescribe law or policy or to describe the procedure or practice requirements of an agency, including, without limitation, regulations, rules, memoranda, administrative orders, guidance documents, policy statements, and interagency agreements, regardless of whether the same were enacted through the processes in the Administrative Procedure Act, but does not include: (a) regulations issued with respect to a military, national security, homeland security, foreign affairs, or immigration-related function of the United States; (b) regulations related to agency organization, management, or personnel; or (c) any other specific regulation or category of regulations exempted by the Director, who shall exempt those regulations or categories of regulations that impose minimal costs or burdens on the private sector or that are requested to be exempted by the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff or the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy. Sec. 6. Implementation. (a) The Director is charged with implementing this order, including by providing agencies with updated guidance on implementing the ten-for-one rule described in section 3(a) of this order, including processes for identifying regulations for elimination, determining what constitutes, generally and specifically, a “rule” or “regulation” for purposes of this order, estimating and standardizing regulatory costs, and ensuring compliance with the Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable laws. (b) The Director shall revoke OMB Circular No. A-4 of November 9, 2023 (Regulatory Analysis), and all accompanying appendices, guidelines, and documents, and shall reinstate the prior version of Circular A-4, issued on September 17, 2003; and (c) The Secretary of the Treasury and the Director shall reinstate the Memorandum of Agreement between the Department of the Treasury and the Office of Management and Budget of April 11, 2018, regarding review of tax regulations under Executive Order 12866. Sec. 7. Severability. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. Sec. 8. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 31, 2025.
The arrangement between Lebanon and Israel, monitored by the United States, will continue to be in effect until February 18, 2025. The Government of Lebanon, the Government of Israel, and the Government of the United States will also begin negotiations for the return of Lebanese prisoners captured after October 7, 2023.
“Today the world celebrates as President Trump secured the release of four more Israeli hostages who were, for far too long, held against their will by Hamas in horrific conditions. The United States will continue with its great partner Israel to push for the release of all remaining hostages and the pursuit of peace throughout the region.” 
It was another week filled with endless wins for the American people under President Donald J. Trump. Here are only a few of the many victories from the past week: 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. The United States helped found the United Nations (UN) after World War II to prevent future global conflicts and promote international peace and security. But some of the UN’s agencies and bodies have drifted from this mission and instead act contrary to the interests of the United States while attacking our allies and propagating anti-Semitism. As in 2018, when the United States withdrew from the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC), the United States will reevaluate our commitment to these institutions. Three UN organizations that deserve renewed scrutiny are the UNHRC; the UN Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO); and the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA). UNRWA has reportedly been infiltrated by members of groups long designated by the Secretary of State (Secretary) as foreign terrorist organizations, and UNRWA employees were involved in the October 7, 2023, Hamas attack on Israel. UNHRC has protected human rights abusers by allowing them to use the organization to shield themselves from scrutiny, while UNESCO has demonstrated failure to reform itself, has continually demonstrated anti-Israel sentiment over the past decade, and has failed to address concerns over mounting arrears. Sec. 2. UNHRC and UNESCO Participation. (a) The United States will not participate in the UNHRC and will not seek election to that body. The Secretary shall terminate the office of United States Representative to the UNHRC and any positions primarily dedicated to supporting the United States Representative to the UNHRC. (b) The United States will also conduct a review of its membership in UNESCO. This review shall be led by the Secretary, in coordination with the United States Representative to the United Nations (UN Ambassador), and must be completed within 90 days of the date of this order. The review will include an evaluation of how and if UNESCO supports United States interests. In particular, the review will include an analysis of any anti-Semitism or anti-Israel sentiment within the organization. Sec. 3. Funding. (a) Executive departments and agencies shall not use any funds for a contribution, grant, or other payment to UNRWA, consistent with section 301 of title III, division G, of Public Law 118-47 (March 23, 2024). The Secretary shall withdraw the determination previously made under section 7048(c)(1) of title VII, division F, of Public Law 118-47. Accordingly, of the funds appropriated for a contribution to the UN Regular Budget under the heading “Contributions to International Organizations” of Public Law 118-47, as most recently continued by Public Law 118-158 (December 21, 2024), the Secretary shall withhold the United States proportionate share of the total annual amount of UN Regular Budget funding for the UNHRC, consistent with section 7048(c) of title VII, division F, of Public Law 118-47. (b) Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary, in consultation with the UN Ambassador, shall conduct a review of all international intergovernmental organizations of which the United States is a member and provides any type of funding or other support, and all conventions and treaties to which the United States is a party, to determine which organizations, conventions, and treaties are contrary to the interests of the United States and whether such organizations, conventions, or treaties can be reformed. Upon the conclusion of that review, the Secretary shall report the findings to the President, through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and provide recommendations as to whether the United States should withdraw from any such organizations, conventions, or treaties. Sec. 4. Notification. The Secretary shall inform the UN Secretary General and the leadership of UNRWA and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights that the United States will not fund UNRWA or the UNHRC and that the United States will not satisfy any claims to pay 2025 assessments or prior arrears by these organizations. Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, February 3, 2025.
WITHDRAWING THE UNITED STATES FROM THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: Section 1. Purpose. The United States noticed its withdrawal from the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2020 due to the organization’s mishandling of the COVID-19 pandemic that arose out of Wuhan, China, and other global health crises, its failure to adopt urgently needed reforms, and its inability to demonstrate independence from the inappropriate political influence of WHO member states. In addition, the WHO continues to demand unfairly onerous payments from the United States, far out of proportion with other countries’ assessed payments. China, with a population of 1.4 billion, has 300 percent of the population of the United States, yet contributes nearly 90 percent less to the WHO. Sec. 2. Actions. (a) The United States intends to withdraw from the WHO. The Presidential Letter to the Secretary-General of the United Nations signed on January 20, 2021, that retracted the United States’ July 6, 2020, notification of withdrawal is revoked. (b) Executive Order 13987 of January 25, 2021 (Organizing and Mobilizing the United States Government to Provide a Unified and Effective Response to Combat COVID–19 and to Provide United States Leadership on Global Health and Security), is revoked. (c) The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs shall establish directorates and coordinating mechanisms within the National Security Council apparatus as he deems necessary and appropriate to safeguard public health and fortify biosecurity. (d) The Secretary of State and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall take appropriate measures, with all practicable speed, to: (i) pause the future transfer of any United States Government funds, support, or resources to the WHO; (ii) recall and reassign United States Government personnel or contractors working in any capacity with the WHO; and (iii) identify credible and transparent United States and international partners to assume necessary activities previously undertaken by the WHO. (e) The Director of the White House Office of Pandemic Preparedness and Response Policy shall review, rescind, and replace the 2024 U.S. Global Health Security Strategy as soon as practicable. Sec. 3. Notification. The Secretary of State shall immediately inform the Secretary-General of the United Nations, any other applicable depositary, and the leadership of the WHO of the withdrawal. Sec. 4. Global System Negotiations. While withdrawal is in progress, the Secretary of State will cease negotiations on the WHO Pandemic Agreement and the amendments to the International Health Regulations, and actions taken to effectuate such agreement and amendments will have no binding force on the United States. Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
